---
title: '2015-06-16'
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/LD4PE_Meeting_Minutes/2015-06-16.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 28 June 2015, at 17:31.  
This page has been accessed 16,126 times.

[<img alt="LD4PE logo" src="/archive/mediawiki_wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" width="100" height="99">](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/images/Ld4pe.png "LD4PE logo") [LD4PE Task Group Homepage](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/Pet/ld4pe)

# 16 June 2015: Meeting Summary 
<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
          <a href="#16_June_2015:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">16 June 2015: Meeting Summary</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Agenda 

- Technical Work- Stuart Sutton 
- Editorial Board- Tom Baker 
- Resource Collection- Sean Dolan
- Marketing and Community Building- Mike Lauruhn
- Anyone—other business

## Summary 

Present: Tom Baker, Joseph Chapman, Dave Clarke, Mike Crandall, Sean Dolan, Mike Lauruhn, Stuart Sutton, David Talley, Marcia Zeng

- **Technical Work** : Will need to look at the learning resources soon, as well as potential partner contributions to determine what other custom posts may be needed (e.g., prerequisites, OCLC data sets, etc). Server access is all set now, the server config to resolve URLs to friendly names is working, backups are working with a 31 day store before purging, themes are installed, David is working on the footer and sidebars, Abi has the WP plugin working. Joseph has imported Sean’s collected resources into the triple store. Ready to review content and edit descriptions (some are very long). Still need to apply CI terms to the records, but otherwise mapped from DC terms to LRMI terms. There are currently 240 resource descriptions; first priority in editing and tagging will be those related to the SPARQL section of the index, as the Editorial Board gets up to speed. The first round will focus on a few records to ensure that all is working, including import to WordPress through the plugin. David Talley suggests a call soon for the Architecture working group to discuss second and third level pages, and needs content for many of them. Stuart suggested that we provide editing privileges on the WP site to key people so that they can populate pages themselves rather than sending everything to David. David will make the registration link visible (done- now in footer, drop-down slider bar, and login page) so that others can register, and will determine access rights as appropriate.

- **Editorial Board** : Tom will be moving back to Germany soon, and will begin pulling together the Editorial Board team for some early work on the SPARQL competencies. Initial members will be Tom, Sean, Stefanie Ruehle, Stuart, and Kai Eckert. Estimated start of their work is late July. Others are welcome to join the group as well if interested. Before then, a few learning resources will be prepped with the current index terms so that Abi and David can begin working on WP functionality for import and display. A process for managing the Competency Index in Github is in place, based on a SKOS concept scheme. Joseph can work against LRMI tags for import to WP as a start, to test search/display functionality in WP prior to the CI tagging taking place, so that work should be able to move ahead. The switch to the triple store editor is close, and new records and old ones will be created and edited through that service once active, with the database store used by Sean to date deactivated at that time.

- **Resource Collection** : Eric Childress is estimating late July for the OCLC data sets to be available. They have been drawn and are up, but cleanup and prep is still being done before release. Marcia noted that we may want to set aside the curricula that Debbie collected, since many are not available on the web, and may need to be treated in a different way than the other resources. Sean notes that there are 90 SPARQL resources, though 30 are subparts of one larger resource. Most cover multiple competencies, so granularity may be an issue as they are assigned index terms. Stuart and Joseph are creating reference terms for the LRMI CVs in the triple store, so that literals will be used as little as possible. Mike Lauruhn noted that it would be helpful to know what resources might be needed sooner rather than later so that content partners could begin work. It was noted that existing resources could be contributed as well as new ones, so much of that can be included now if available. Sean’s gap analysis is also available as a starting point. Dave Clarke is in the process of creating short videos on using and re-using Linked Data and expects to have those available at the end of July.

- **Marketing/Community building** : Mike Lauruhn noted that the deadline for ASIST submissions is in two weeks; Stuart is on track to submit. The slot at the LITA forum has been reduced to 20 minutes, but Mike is negotiating for more time if possible. If not, may not be able to justify attending for such a short time. ALISE is one month away, with 90 minute slots available for a similar activity to what Mike proposed for LITA.

- **Next Meeting** : Tuesday, July 21. Same time (7:00 AM PDT).

## Action Items 

- Stuart set up Architecture working group call to make decisions on site layout.
- David Talley to put up registration link (done- now in footer, drop-down slider bar, and login page).
- Tom will set a meeting for the Editorial Board in late July.
- Stuart will tag a few SPARQL records with the current CI index terms so that Abi/Dave can use for testing in WordPress.
- Joseph will let people know when the editor is ready to use, and migration from the learning resource database is complete.
- Mike C to lay out milestones for work items based on current information.
- **Next Meeting:** Tuesday, July 21, at 7:00 AM PDT.

## Meeting Resources & References 

