---
title: '2013-12-20'
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/2013-12-20.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 28 May 2017, at 12:19.  
This page has been accessed 19,649 times.

[Return to Executive Committee](/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee)

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Summary</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-4"><a href="#Meeting_Resources"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources</span></a></li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


## Agenda 

Final review and approval of draft organizational structure diagrams, define next steps.

## Meeting Summary 

Summary of DCMI Executive Committee meeting, 20 Dec, 2013

Present: Joseph Busch, Eric Childress, Michael Crandall, Stuart Sutton, Marcia Zeng

The meeting centered around reviewing each of the three diagrams we have produced to communicate the restructuring of DCMI to the appropriate bodies.

On the org chart, the name of the governing body was changed from Oversight Committee to Governing Board.

Stuart's suggestion to put the Directorate into a reduced role is understood, but the group felt that it was important to show it as a full entity to provide continuity in organizational membership and management. The diagram will be modified to show a solid line, along with renaming to "Directorate" from "Directorate Personnel". As the role diminishes with reduced funding, it will be important to clearly define which parts remain with the Directorate and which pass to the governing bodies-- this will be part of our subsequent discussions on bylaws and policies and procedures once the structure is confirmed.

Following on to this change is a large shift in roles, with the Chair of the Governing Board becoming the spokesperson and head of the initiative, and the Managing Director moving into a support role. This will require a larger board with more skillsets, which is something Eric and Mike will need to work on in the coming year. Continuity will be provided through the three year rotation of the Governing Board officers, with Usage Board and Advisory Board tbd.

The Treasurer role was removed from the Governing Board, since the Membership and Finance will assume that role (with support from the Directorate).

In the table, the Advisory Board and Usage Board chairs were moved from voting members to ex-officio status on the Governance Board, the Governing Board chair replaced the Managing Director as the convening authority for the Executive Committee, the chair of the Specifications/Documentation committee was added as an ex-officio member of the Usage Board to ensure close communication between the two efforts, and the Usage Board membership was changed from "elected and appointed" to "appointed" to reflect current (and proposed future) practice. Policies for this and for election of the Usage Board chair will be discussed when the new structure is put in place and the Usage Board chair is a member of the Executive Committee next year.

On the Reporting chart, we agreed that the Directorate should report directly to the Governing Board as shown.

Stuart recommended thinking about separating the technical specifications from the user guides and moving the latter into the Education/Training committee because of the very different audiences for the two products. Marcia and Joseph will work on this and change the committee descriptions to reflect.

For next steps:

- Eric and Mike will create a package with Stuart to send to the Governing Board explaining the changes and requesting approval of the proposal-- by end of year or early January.
- Once this is completed, Marcia and Joseph will determine what steps need to be taken to communicate the changes to the Advisory Board and begin forming and recruiting for the standing committees (as well as further defining the charters).
- Stuart will move the current bylaws sections into the wiki, and we will edit there to reflect changes necessary to support the proposed structure. These will be kept as high-level as possible, with operational details embedded in the policies and procedures contained in the DCMI handbook that Stuart has been working on.
- Marcia and Joseph will further clarify the roles and responsibilities of the Specifications/Documentation committee and the Education/Training committee.

## Action Items 

- **Action 1:** Update charts and post to wiki. (completed- see link below in meeting resources)

- **Action 2:** Eric, Mike and Stuart will create a cover story to go with the documents and get to the Governing Board for review and approval by end of year if possible.

- **Action 3:** Stuart will move the appropriate sections of the bylaws into the corresponding section of the wiki for editing once we reach that stage.

- **Action 4:** Marcia and Joseph will continue work on clarifying committee roles and scope for the standing committees in the Advisory Board.

## Meeting Resources 

- **Meeting audio recording:** Dropbox /EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE/Call\_Recordings/2013-12-20.mov
- **Combined and Revised org chart** [/mediawiki_wiki/Exec\_Committee#Current\_Draft\_Organizational\_Chart](/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee#Current_Draft_Organizational_Chart)

