---
title: '2014-03-07'
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/2014-03-07.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 28 May 2017, at 12:30.  
This page has been accessed 722 times.

* * *

##### [Handbook](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook "DCMI Handbook"): [Table of Contents](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/ "DCMI Handbook") 
<dl>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board.md" title="DCMI Governing Board">Governing Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/finance.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/finance">Membership &amp; Finance</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/nominations.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/nominations">Nominations &amp; Bylaws</a> 
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board.md" title="DCMI Technical Board">Technical Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/usage.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/usage">Usage</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/standards.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/standards">Standards &amp; Liaisons</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/specifications.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/specifications">Community Specifications</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/infrastructure.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/infrastructure">Infrastructure Advisory Committee (IAC)</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board">Advisory Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/meetings.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/meetings">Conferences &amp; Meetings</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/documentation.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/documentation">Education &amp; Outreach</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i>Management:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee.md" title="Exec Committee">Executive</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/directorate.md" title="Exec Committee/directorate">Directorate</a>
</dd>
</dl>

* * *

# 7 March 2014: Meeting Summary 
<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1"><a href="#Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Handbook: Table of Contents</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
          <a href="#7_March_2014:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">7 March 2014: Meeting Summary</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">2.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


## Agenda 

1. Finalize Board and Committee officers and composition. It might help to review [Eric’s spreadsheet](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ue1rrkjsg1ubufp/dublincore%20structure%202014.xlsx)<sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0">[1]</a></sup> of chairs, reporting paths, and terms to make sure it’s consistent with wiki materials and reflects current knowledge.
2. Discuss election terms and process, given the likelihood that we will not be able to hold actual elections for any of the officers except the GB until next summer (do current officers continue in position until a year from the Austin conference?)
3. Disposition of the current AB members—how do we communicate with them about their home in the new structure (and where do they go)?
4. Harmonize the AB charter/name/structure with the current thinking of Marcia and Joseph on using the Planning Board as part of the AB. Does this change the overall approach in this area?
5. Listserv management—given Stuart’s concerns about too much overhead for JISC, do we want to revisit the requirement that each Community/Task Group be required to have a JISCMail account? Is there another solution that might work for this while still preserving an archival record of the conversations?
6. Next steps in communicating changes to the membership at large. I think we will need to specifically talk to the current AB members about their roles going forward. For the broader membership, we have agreed to do a general announcement on the next build of the DCMI website. Do we need followup communication beyond that? I”ve suggested a session at the annual meeting to present and discuss the changes—is something more needed? Do each of the Boards need meeting time at the annual meeting? 
7. Bylaw revisions and approval by the GB.

## Summary 

Present: Tom Baker, Joseph Busch, Eric Childress, Michael Crandall, Stuart Sutton, Marcia Zeng

1. **Finalize Board and Committee officers and composition.** The bulk of the call was spent on this topic, with the following decisions coming out of the discussion:
  1. The name of the Advisory Board will remain unchanged for now, subject to discussion with the larger AB at the annual meeting.
  2. There is discomfort about dividing up the current AB members, that should come from their individual choices.
  3. The overall structure of the AB is different from the GB and TB, both of which are tightly constituted of the officers of the Board and Standing Committees, with broader member participation through the committees/task groups and communities. In contrast the AB is designed to have a "steering committee" composed of the officers and Standing Committees, but is constituted of all active members of the current AB and others as decided in the future. This will be the most inclusive of the Boards, and will be not only advisory, but have programmatic responsibilities (and the charter will need to be revised to reflect this). 
  4. The TB and GB will remain focused on technical architecture and governance, respectively, with the AB advising across all aspects of the initiative as well as producing documentation, outreach, and other programmatic deliverables.
2. **Discuss election terms and process.** Because we are still in the formative stages, the EC agreed that we would postpone elections until next year for the AB and TB, with the current officers continuing to serve until the 2015 annual conference. The GB elections may occur this year, pending further conversations between Eric and Mike. Stuart encouraged a single process for nominations and elections for all boards, managed by the GB Nominations and Bylaws Committee, with candidates being put forth by the boards to that committee. Nomination and election of officers of the standing committees (and any other task groups or communities) should be managed by the respective boards, again following the overall process as closely as possible.
3. **Disposition of the current AB members.** As noted above, all current AB members will continue, pending further discussion with the broader membership at the annual meeting.
4. **Harmonize the AB charter/name/structure.** Marcia and Joseph will revise the current charter of the AB to better reflect its role as not only an advisory body but also as a programmatic driver for the initiative. The Planning Committee will be eliminated, with its charter subsumed by the AB itself, until such time as it appears that a separate body is needed for those activities.
5. **Listserv management.** Initial indications are that JISC will continue to provide the necessary support for managing listservs, and pending confirmation by Stuart, we will assume that any standing committee and the boards will be provided with a JISCMail account. If possible, task groups and communities will also be assigned JISCMail accounts, but may conduct their business through other communication venues. It will be important for each of the Boards to ensure that the work of the task groups and communities is made visible through formal DCMI channels such as the JISCMail lists and wiki pages, so that the activities of the groups is public and available to the membership at large.
6. **Next steps in communicating changes to the membership at large.** Mike will resend the proposed message from the chair for the next rebuild to the membership (also available [here](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/files/DCMIwebcopy.pdf)<sup id="cite_ref-1" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-1">[2]</a></sup>). This will go live mid-March, so please send comments soon if you have any. Following this message, we will need to begin thinking about what kinds of activities the respective boards/committees may want to conduct at the annual meeting, and how we can best communicate the changes to the broader membership and enlist their support and engagement. 
7. **Bylaw revisions and approval by the GB.** Stuart will begin working on bylaws revisions to reflect the changes we have made, with a target date for GB review and approval (and publishing on the website) in May.

## Action Items 

- **Revise AB Charter:** Marcia and Joseph will revise the AB charter to make it clear that the board is not just advisory, but responsible for the programmatic activities of the initiative.
- **Remove Planning Committee:** Marcia and Joseph will incorporate the Planning Committee charter into the AB charter revision, and remove the Planning Committee as a standing body of the AB.
- **Correct UC membership criteria:** Tom will change the language in the UC membership criteria to point to the TB, not the GB as the managing body for the UC.
- **Nominations/Elections Process:** Eric and Mike will flesh out the Nominations and Bylaws Committee wiki page (and include the TB in the charter), to suggest a common process for all Board officer nominations and elections. Others will review, and think about how this might be cascaded down to subsidiary bodies.
- **Listservs:** Stuart will contact JISC to discuss constraints on use of their services, and confirm that we can continue to use this as our primary communication vehicle for all active bodies in the initiative. We will continue to require that each task group and community have a JISCMail account if possible, though will recognize that many will use other venues for communication as well. Each Board will require reporting of activities through an authorized DCMI communication platform (JISCMail, wiki page) for any official DCMI group.
- **Restructuring Communications:** Mike has posted the proposed [message from the chair](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/files/DCMIwebcopy.pdf)<sup id="cite_ref-2" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-2">[3]</a></sup>) for the March web rebuild, and all will review soon to provide any feedback/comments. We will discuss further actions in a future call.
- **Bylaw Revisions:** Stuart will begin working on revisions, with a target date of May for GB review and approval, and publication on the website.

## Meeting Resources & References 

1. ↑ [https://www.dropbox.com/s/ue1rrkjsg1ubufp/dublincore%20structure%202014.xlsx](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ue1rrkjsg1ubufp/dublincore%20structure%202014.xlsx)
2. ↑ [http://wiki.dublincore.org/images/e/e6/DCMIwebcopy.pdf](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/files/DCMIwebcopy.pdf)
3. ↑ [http://wiki.dublincore.org/images/e/e6/DCMIwebcopy.pdf](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/files/DCMIwebcopy.pdf)

