---
title: '2014-02-07'
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/2014-02-07.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 28 May 2017, at 12:25.  
This page has been accessed 365 times.

[Return to Executive Committee](/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee "Exec Committee")

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Summary</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-4"><a href="#Meeting_Resources"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources</span></a></li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


## Agenda 

- Finalizing plans for communication to UB and AB regarding restructuring efforts
- Reviewing content on Handbook pages prior to communication
- Discussing Community Specifications Committee relation to UB
- Set next meeting times

## Meeting Summary 

Summary of DCMI Executive Committee meeting, 7 Feb, 2014

Present: Joseph Busch, Eric Childress, Michael Crandall, Stuart Sutton, Marcia Zeng, Tom Baker

- **Communication with Board Members:** This probably should have been discussed last, since subsequent discussions may affect decisions, but in principal, all agreed that the draft letters shared by Mike and Marcia (see [1] and [2] in Meeting Resources) are basically on target, and that Mike would aim for mailing the umbrella message on Wednesday, 12 Feb, with Marcia and Tom to follow up with their letters to the respective Boards on the subsequent Thursday and Friday (13 Feb or 14 Feb, respectively). Eric suggested that he tweet the reorg work, and after some discussion, we agreed that this would be great, but should happen after the next website build on 28 Feb, which will include a message from Mike, as chair of the Governing Board (and voice of DCMI in the new world order) outlining the changes we are making in the structure. This will be a good followup to the emails and may provide more visibility and direct exposure than the emails themselves offer.

- **Review of Handbook pages:** Stuart added a second diagram to the Org Structure Handbook page to indicate the reporting relationships (see [3] in Meeting Resources). All agreed that this took care of the reporting questions Marcia had raised. Tom reviewed the draft charter statement he had crafted, and the current version was deemed sufficient to get started, with the inclusion of ISO/NISO standards maintenance as part of the charter. Stuart will be updating the AB Committee wording on [4] to reflect the altered text on the Committee pages (reporting to AB not to EC/Directorate). Otherwise, the EC felt the draft text is ready for review and comment by the membership of the respective boards.

- **Relation of Community Specifications Committee to UB:** This relationship engendered a great deal of discussion, which is now being continued on the EC listserv (see [5] in Meeting Resources). This engendered a discussion of renaming the Usage Board to Technical Board, and increasing its scope to include the Community Specifications Committee. Details of this change, if made, will need to be worked out prior to any messaging to the respective boards, since it has implications for the work we are asking them to do.

- **Next Meeting:** Assuming we can manage the discussion related to the change in name of the Usage Board and the placement of the Community Specifications Committee by email, we will wait until after the website rebuild on 28 Feb to decide when and if we need to meet again. In the meantime, discussion will continue on the listserv, and if we need to change the dates of the mail to the board members, that will be done by email.

## Action Items 

- **Action 1:*** **before 11 Feb.*** Tom will discuss proposed changes with Kai to bring him on board and alert him to upcoming messages before they are sent.

- **Action 2:*** **before 11 Feb.*** Tom will make any necessary changes to the draft language for the new Technical Board on the Handbook pages, including the addition of an explicit reference to the ISO/NISO standardization work. Pages for standing committees of the TB may also need to be added based on current discussions.

- **Action 2:*** **before 11 Feb.*** Stuart will revise the orgstructure diagrams to reflect the results of our discussion on the Community Specifications Committee home and the name change for the Usage Board to the Technical Board. He will also clean up the Handbook pages to make sure they are consistent across all levels.

- **Action 3:*** **11 Feb.*** All EC members will review Stuart's revisions and send any comments to the listserv for discussion and change.

- **Action 4:*** **12 Feb.*** Pending discussions in the next few days, Mike will send email to the UB and AB maillists outlining restructuring and indicating Tom and Marcia will follow up to lead discussion.

- **Action 5:*** **13/14 Feb.*** Marcia and Tom will send out followup emails to their respective boards to initiate review and discussion of restructuring.

- **Action 6:*** **before 18 Feb.*** Mike will distribute a draft message on the restructuring for public consumption on the DCMI website, to be released Feb 28.

- **Action 7:*** **before 28 Feb.*** Stuart will include Mike's message in the website rebuild scheduled for 28 Feb.

- **Action 8:*** **28 Feb.*** Erik will tweet an announcement of the changes, referring to Mike's message on the updated DCMI website.

- **Action 9:*** **1 Mar.*** Mike will ping the EC to see if a meeting is needed and if so, schedule one.

## Meeting Resources 

[1] [/mediawiki_wiki/File:Dear\_DCMI\_Advisory\_and\_Usage\_Board\_members.pdf](/mediawiki_wiki/files/Dear_DCMI_Advisory_and_Usage_Board_members.pdf)

[2] [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=dc-ec;9e76b677.1402](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=dc-ec;9e76b677.1402)

[3] [/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI\_Handbook/orgStructure#Reporting](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/orgStructure#Reporting)

[4] [/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI\_Handbook/orgStructure#Standing\_Committees](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/orgStructure#Standing_Committees)

[5] [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=dc-ec;ee8ad299.1402](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=dc-ec;ee8ad299.1402) (and thread following)

