---
title: '2014-04-09'
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/2014-04-09.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 28 May 2017, at 12:32.  
This page has been accessed 630 times.

* * *

##### [Handbook](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook): [Table of Contents](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/) 
<dl>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board.md" title="DCMI Governing Board">Governing Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/finance.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/finance">Membership &amp; Finance</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/nominations.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/nominations">Nominations &amp; Bylaws</a> 
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board.md" title="DCMI Technical Board">Technical Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/usage.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/usage">Usage</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/standards.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/standards">Standards &amp; Liaisons</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/specifications.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/specifications">Community Specifications</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/infrastructure.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/infrastructure">Infrastructure Advisory Committee (IAC)</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board">Advisory Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/meetings.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/meetings">Conferences &amp; Meetings</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/documentation.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/documentation">Education &amp; Outreach</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i>Management:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee.md" title="Exec Committee">Executive</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/directorate.md" title="Exec Committee/directorate">Directorate</a>
</dd>
</dl>

* * *

# 04 April 2014: Meeting Summary 
<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1"><a href="#Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Handbook: Table of Contents</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
          <a href="#04_April_2014:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">04 April 2014: Meeting Summary</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">2.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<pre> Recorded: Dropbox @ /EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE/Call_Recordings/2014-04-09.mov
</pre>
## Agenda 

1. Updates on progress with Standing Committee formation (officers, wiki additions,&nbsp;??)
2. Marcia’s “Message from the Chair” on AB restructure for the April web build
3. Discussion of schedule for administrative meetings (Boards, EC, Standing Committees) on Tuesday at the Annual Meeting
4. New business

## Summary 

Present: Joseph Busch, Eric Childress, Michael Crandall, Kai Eckert, Stuart Sutton, Marcia Zeng

1. **Committee Formation.**
  1. Kai would like assistance in finding a co-chair for the Technical Board, and officers for the Community Specifications Committee. If anyone has potential candidates, please send them to the EC list, and Kai will work with Mike to follow up with them for engagement.
  2. All chair positions have been filled in the AB now, and work is beginning. The AB Education and Outreach Committee met, and had questions about the goal of the committee-- is it to raise money or provide member value. We emphasized that the primary focus was member value, which will bring revenue downstream if the members find the offerings provided by the Initiative worth their time and resources. The committee will develop an education plan and present for review. A question was also raised about whether committee members had to be AB members, and the consensus was that this is not a requirement, though should be one of the items discussed at the Annual Meeting. Ability to speak English is also not a requirement, since we have many potential members in other countries. Emma and Muriel (the Conference and Meetings co-chairs) will be looking at existing materials on conference planning and reaching out to steering committee members from prior conferences for their insights as well.
2. **Message from Chair.** Marcia's message from the chair is ready to go with minor modifications. Mike added in a brief introduction for the message, and Stuart will be including a short phrase the makes it clear that the current Standing Committee chairs are interim appointments, and an election process will be developed for the coming year by the Board in cooperation with the GB Nominations and Bylaw committee. Marcia will send an announcement of the officers out to the AB mailing list after publication on the web, Stuart will post the general Announcements page on the DCIM website and Eric will tweet also. Bios and pictures of the officers will also be added to the AB web page. Stuart will also be adding the new JISCMail list addresses across all the Board pages.
3. **Schedule for Annual Meeting Administrative Meetings.** Eric's spreadsheet offers a comparison of Stuart's original proposal, with an alternate scheme developed over the past week by Eric and Mike. We decided to go with the alternate approach, with minor modifications based on Tom's feedback. Current version here: Because of limited budget, all meals and expenses will be borne by the individual members.

## Action Items 

- **TB Chairs:** All will send recommendations of potential co-chairs for the Technical Board and officers for the Community Specifications Committee to Kai via the EC mailing list. Kai and Mike will follow up on these to invite.
- **Update Wiki:** All should remember to update the wiki pages for the Boards and Standing Committees as details are fleshed out (as well as other parts where information is out of date).
- **Message from the Chair:** All should review the [Message from the Chair](http://dublincore.org/news/chairMessage/)<sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0">[1]</a></sup>on the staging server and send corrections to Stuart before April 12.
- **Annual Meeting Schedule:** Review the updated schedule ( [File:DC 2014 - admin day.pdf](/mediawiki_wiki/files/DC_2014_-_admin_day.pdf))‎ and send any suggestions/modifications to Eric and Mike.

## Meeting Resources & References 

1. ↑ [http://dublincore.org:8080/news/chairMessage/](http://dublincore.org:8080/news/chairMessage/)

