---
title: '2014-03-25'
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/2014-03-25.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 28 May 2017, at 12:31.  
This page has been accessed 389 times.

* * *

##### [Handbook](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook "DCMI Handbook"): [Table of Contents](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/ "DCMI Handbook") 
<dl>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board.md" title="DCMI Governing Board">Governing Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/finance.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/finance">Membership &amp; Finance</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/nominations.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/nominations">Nominations &amp; Bylaws</a> 
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board.md" title="DCMI Technical Board">Technical Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/usage.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/usage">Usage</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/standards.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/standards">Standards &amp; Liaisons</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/specifications.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/specifications">Community Specifications</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/infrastructure.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/infrastructure">Infrastructure Advisory Committee (IAC)</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board">Advisory Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/meetings.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/meetings">Conferences &amp; Meetings</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/documentation.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/documentation">Education &amp; Outreach</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i>Management:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee.md" title="Exec Committee">Executive</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/directorate.md" title="Exec Committee/directorate">Directorate</a>
</dd>
</dl>

* * *

# 25 March 2014: Meeting Summary 
<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1"><a href="#Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Handbook: Table of Contents</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
          <a href="#25_March_2014:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">25 March 2014: Meeting Summary</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">2.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


## Agenda 

1. Final board structure. We need to finalize the board structures, and talk about some of the details of the transition from the current structure to this new structure, including membership on the various committees/task groups/communities/boards and communication of changes to individuals and DCMI at large. We also need to talk about a process for how people are invited to join and removed from the boards. See [Eric’s spreadsheet](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ue1rrkjsg1ubufp/dublincore%20structure%202014.xlsx) <sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0">[1]</a></sup> for reference information on the effect of changes proposed to date on members and groups.
2. Messages from the Chair. Needed from Marcia and Kai related to these changes for April and May DCMI website builds.
3. Policy on editing wiki pages, per Marcia’s recent questions.
4. Scheduling a regular time (once a month?) for an EC call. See [Stuart’s calendar](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/Administrative_Calendar)<sup id="cite_ref-1" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-1">[2]</a></sup> for suggested cycles on calls for all governing bodies.
5. Other business.

## Summary 

Present: Tom Baker, Joseph Busch, Eric Childress, Michael Crandall, Kai Eckert, Stuart Sutton, Marcia Zeng

1. **Final Board Structures.** The bulk of the call was spent on this topic, with the following decisions coming out of the discussion:
  1. The Technical Board will be comprised of the Chair (and co-Chair) of the TB, along with the Chair and co-Chair of each of the standing committees, for a maximum of 8 members (may be fewer if officers hold overlapping positions). The role of the TB is to coordinate activities of the committees, and serve as a reporting and advisory body to the GB. 
  2. DC-Architecture will be used as the primary public communication vehicle for all Technical Board subsidiaries (currently has 279 members).
  3. Each subsidiary body under the TB is authorized to create task groups or communities as needed, with regular reporting of activity to the TB.
  4. Nominations of TB members should come from solicitation of the working members of committees/task groups/communities, with recommendations forwarded to the GB Membership and Nominations Committee by the TB for review and approval. The TB chair(s) will be elected by the TB from its own members or outside candidates, with final approval by the GB (through the Nominations and Elections Committee)
  5. The Advisory Board will remain as is for the time being, pending further discussion at the Annual Meeting. For now, the Board will be directed by a Steering Committee composed of the Chair and Chair-elect, plus the Chairs and Chair-Elects of the standing committees (6 total).
  6. The current Advisory Board list will remain the primary public vehicle for AB communications, with a new AB Steering Committee list for the Steering Committee use.
  7. Marcia and Joseph will discuss further modifications and changes to the AB structure at the Annual Meeting with the broader AB membership.
2. **Message from the Chair.** We agreed that Marcia will prepare a “message from the chair” of the AB in time for the April 16 DCMI web build (will be needed by April 14 or earlier). The message should describe the changes in the AB as a result of our conversations, as well as a preview of discussions expected to occur at the Annual Meeting. If chairs of the Standing Committees have been appointed by then, it would be great to provide them with recognition as well. Kai will follow this with a message for the May 16 build from the TB, with a focus should be on the new structure, particularly the role of the Community Specifications Committee. Some explanation of the communication platforms being instituted and the overall charter of the TB would also be helpful. 
3. **Editing the Wiki.** All Board members should have access to the wiki and can edit materials on their respective sections (and others if appropriate). The only thing Stuart asks is that the templates not be changed, since he is attempting to standardize as much as possible to improve clarity and management.
4. **Regular EC Meetings.** We agreed to set up regular meetings for the EC. It may make sense to schedule these the week before the website builds so we can take care of any changes that need to be reviewed prior to that work. This would mean the next meeting would occur the second week of April, with a similar pattern in future months. Mike will send out a schedule to the EC listserv. 
5. **Other Business.**
  1. Marcia asked for an update and list of current members for the Asian DCMI regional conference being planned by Keven Liu. Stuart will provide this, and asked that he be alerted to all such events so he can make sure that they are publicized and any support from DCMI that is needed can be provided.

## Action Items 

- **Revise AB/TB wiki pages:** Marcia/Joseph and Kai/Tom should review the AB/TB wiki pages to make sure that the content is consistent with the discussion and decisions made today.
- **Further refine charter and procedures for GB Nominations & Elections Committee:** Mike/Eric will need to review the wiki pages for this committee to make sure they reflect our discussions today.
- **Set up listservs for new bodies:** Stuart will move ahead with setting up the listservs as described in his most recent communication (taking into account any changes needed from today’s discussion).
- **Message from the Chair:** Marcia will draft a message from the Chair for the April website build. Mike will assist her with content. Kai will do the same for the May build.
- **Regular EC meetings:** Mike will send out a regular schedule for EC calls over the next few months.
- **Member list:** Stuart will send out the list of individual members to the EC (already done, can also be found on the [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/dch7payek9xqoly/2T0CTOy4Ag)<sup id="cite_ref-2" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-2">[3]</a></sup>, Marcia will provide additional information to Stuart on the Asian DCMI regional meeting. 

## Meeting Resources & References 

1. ↑ [https://www.dropbox.com/s/ue1rrkjsg1ubufp/dublincore%20structure%202014.xlsx](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ue1rrkjsg1ubufp/dublincore%20structure%202014.xlsx)
2. ↑ [/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI\_Handbook/Administrative\_Calendar](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/Administrative_Calendar)
3. ↑ [https://www.dropbox.com/sh/dch7payek9xqoly/2T0CTOy4Ag](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/dch7payek9xqoly/2T0CTOy4Ag)

