---
title: '2014-02-11'
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/2014-02-11.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 28 May 2017, at 12:28.  
This page has been accessed 414 times.

[Return to Executive Committee](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee "Exec Committee")

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Summary</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-4"><a href="#Meeting_Resources"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources</span></a></li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


## Agenda 

- Discuss scope of changes from original proposal approved by Governing Board

- Review changes proposed since our last call to gain consensus on approach prior to announcing to AB and UB

- Make sure that public wiki is ready for announcement

- Discuss Eric's table of officer terms and appointments

## Meeting Summary 

Summary of DCMI Executive Committee meeting, 11 Feb, 2014

Present: Joseph Busch, Eric Childress, Michael Crandall, Stuart Sutton, Marcia Zeng, Tom Baker

- **Scope of changes:** Mike raised the concern that we do not want to make too many changes from what was presented to the Governing Board for their approval before the general announcement is made to the AB and UB, to avoid appearance that we have exceeded our authority. To date, most of the changes are in the spirit at least of what was approved by the GB, with the possible exception of the proposed Technical Board, but that can be presented as a recasting of the UB, which fulfills the intention to elevate the technical side of DCMI to a higher level. There seemed to be agreement that the changes that follow will be adequate for now, and that other changes will be represented to the GB following the AB/UB discussion of the restructuring.

- **Change discussion:** A number of changes have been proposed over the past few days to the organizational structure. Each of these was discussed to make sure that the EC had a common stance. In summary:
  - We agreed to create a Technical Board to replace the old Usage Board, with the current Usage Board members as temporary members until the process for populating it can be worked through. Tom Baker agreed to be interim chair for this process.
  - We agreed to move the Community Specifications Committee to live under the new Technical Board. This committee should be called out in the message Mike sends to AB and UB to emphasize the attention being paid to the community issues surrounding the relation of their efforts to the former Usage Board.
  - We agreed that there will be two other committees under the Technical Board, the Standards Committee and the Usage Committee (the old Usage Board).
  - We agreed to rename the Education and Documentation Committee to the Education and Outreach Committee.
  - We agreed to hold off on renaming the Advisory Board (to Program Board or something similar) until the AB has a chance to discuss.
  - We agreed to wait on adding Kai to the EC until after he has had a chance to sift through the new TB structure and there is time for discussion on the role he would like to take re: TB vs. Usage Committee. Part of the AB discussion might be centered around where he would be most useful, and what other people might be recruited for roles on the new committees.

- **Review of wiki pages:** A number of changes were identified that should be made on the wiki pages prior to Mike sending out the announcement tomorrow. These are summarized in the action items below.

- **Officer terms and appointment:** Erik's table [1] does a great job of systematizing the discussion about officer terms and appointments. We agreed that this will remain in the protected area of the wiki for now as a reference document, but may provide guidance for the AB and TB discussions as they flesh out these details in the coming weeks.

## Action Items 

- **Mike:** Add language about the Community Specifications Committee to the AB/UB message. See [2] for a revised version.
- **Eric:** Add spreadsheet of officer terms and selection criteria to Dropbox and link from Scratchpad wiki for others to use and modify.
- **Eric/Mike:** Harmonize GB wiki pages references as to what officers the Nominations and Bylaws Committee is responsible for.
- **Tom:** Flesh out the Technical Board main page, the Usage Committee page, and change the Scope statement on the Community Specifications Committee page to refer to the Technical Board, not the EC and Directorate.
- **Marcia:** Remove the Community Specification Committee page from the AB page, and delete other references.
- **Marcia:** Change Scope statements on three remaining AB Committee pages to indicate that committees report to AB, not GB and Directorate.
- **Stuart:** Move Executive Committee charge to the EC wiki page. Change Tom Baker's title to TB Interim Chair.
- **Stuart:** Move Directorate charge to Directorate page.
- **All:** Review pages by end of day Wednesday (2/12) for any other changes that need to be made before making public.
- **All:** Review Mike's message to the AB/UB [2] to make sure it captures our discussion effectively (particularly regarding the positioning of the Community Specifications Committee.

## Meeting Resources 

[1] [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=dc-ec;d269318.1402](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=dc-ec;d269318.1402)

[2] [http://wiki.dublincore.org/images/4/44/Dear\_DCMI\_Advisory\_and\_Usage\_Board\_members.pdf](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/files/Dear_DCMI_Advisory_and_Usage_Board_members.pdf)

