LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 2 (Fri 2015-09-18)

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-09-18.notes.md
* Attended: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Magnus, Debbie
* Time:     0700 SFO / 1000 NYC / 1600 BER
* Where:    Skype

ACTION 2015-09-18: Stuart and Sean to edit
https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-09-25.competencies_for_discussion.md
clustering related draft competencies and deleting references to specific 
resources - for discussion on next week's call.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
CIEB editorial workflow

Stuart: Work of CIEB "is exposed to the wider community for input" (proposal).
Once we get it into a form usable by others, we need to expose it to that wider
community.  One of the goals is that this will be community-developed.  For me,
one of the reasons Github is better: provides mechanism to open this up to
Linked Data community and letting them participate.  Grant process is an
iterative process.

Kai: Doesn't matter what we use right now.  Now we should work in 
a disconnected way from the RDF representation of the CI.  Reluctant
to share a Google Doc with the wider world.  Could paste things into
a Google Doc to work on during the call.  Question, for me is how
to make switch to data representation.  If we say: basis is RDF data,
then we need something that produces a browsable list.  I don't mind
editing RDF but want to view it in more intuitive form.

Tom: It gets rendered at http://explore.dublincore.org/rdf/ci-preview/.

Stuart: Eventually, it will show up in resource descriptions this way:
http://explore.dublincore.net/learning_resource/rdf-database-systems-1st-edition-triples-storage-and-sparql-query-processing/

Stuart: We have mechanisms to publish human-readable.

Stuart: We have two editing environments -

1) ASN - a template-driven cataloging tool that has cataloged thousands -
   written out as RDF that is the triple store.

2) Angular-JS editor - we have developed - written out as RDF.

We have tools for doing that transition.  We can load CSV.  We don't have the
substance of the competency index.

Kai: Maybe create something from the Markdown.  Github already renders well.
Readers can clone, modify.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Competencies related to SPARQL

-  Discussed
   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-31.telecon2_assignments.md

Kai: Have competencies on paper - can talk about them in abstract way.  For
example, in webinar, at which moment what competencies are conveyed.  Can be
difficult with respect to applications.  And how does this relate to learning
experience.  Brainstorm mode.

Debbie: Progress in general - mapped existing competencies to DuCharme.  In
terms of coming up with own competencies - brainstorming in my own plain-text
document.  Was going to pound it out this weekend.  Confusing to me: when is
something a Topic vs Competency.  Looking at competencies in terms of
"demonstrates", "understands".

Stuart: Tom, you were saying that competencies are general, and benchmarks are
more specific.  So it's a balance between these two.

Tom: Tried to capture abstract concept and avoid using specific language
constructs.  Examples:

    Understands that RDF serializations and graphical representations are just
    multiple alternative ways to write down, or "encode", a set of triples, the
    "RDF graph".

    Understands that the most basic SPARQL query matches the triples of an RDF
    graph against a triple pattern consisting of fixed and variable values.

    Knows how to restrict the result set of a SPARQL query by filtering value
    strings that match a regular expression.

    Can restrict the result set of a SPARQL query on the basis of the value of
    a numeric variable.

Sometimes torn:

    Can execute a SPARQL query using the Jena ARQ command-line utility.
    - or  -
    Can execute a SPARQL query from the command line.  
    - then, as a __benchmark__: 
    Can use the Jena ARQ command-line utility.

Also, some constructs may be fundamental enough to include in a competency,
as with:

    Knows the four forms of SPARQL result sets (SELECT, CONSTRUCT, DESCRIBE,
    and ASK) and their uses.

Stuart: I think you are basically right, but not rigid.  But that kind of split
between more general competency and benchmarks that demonstrate what users can
do.  We made an arbitrary choice of competency vs benchmarks.  The action verbs
can be in the benchmarks and not necessarily in the competency (except for
"understands").

Sean: Was looking at it from a different perspective - from perspective of
someone as a tool to access stored resources.  So they would be looking at
competencies to get to what they want to learn.  If you have language
constructs in the competency, does not help them get to.  The benchmark then.

Stuart: Distinguish between competency and benchmarks.  Important to be able to
say - someone looks at one resource.  No objections to having lots of
benchmarks.

Kai: I did overall assessment.  Started with 0 to 60 webinar - didn't know what
to do with it - could say that minutes 18 to 22 are about SELECT, etc.
Absolutely useless to learn these things from the webinar.  What I am
interested in, as teacher - whatever we do, has to lead to a result where I can
use these tools to put them into a content - recommend resources because they
are helpful at a certain point in the learning process.  Cambridge Semantics
are very brief and to the point - explain everything you need to know.  We
could list all the language features, but important to me that in the end,
explain everything.  Particularly useful if you work with resources on your
own.  Perfect for me.  Very compact but I can read and work it out.  THEN it
would be perfect to watch the 0-to-60 webinar.  Cool use of maps.  Question:
what can we do to find things out?

Stuart: One competency can be at the level of overview.  Having competencies at
the novice level is okay.

Kai: 0-to-60 presupposes RDF and SPARQL.

Stuart: But an instructor can put together the introductory stuff to look at
the webinar.

Sean: when i watched 0 to 60, i did actually work along with the
examples, like Kai said.

Stuart: we are not putting together a curriculum.

Kai: If I have a competency for 'DISTINCT', what does that really tell me?

Sean Dolan: yes, I can help cluster

Magnus: Resources show us the level of granularity required.  I had short
tutorials focusing on particular topic.  Don't care if it is at Benchmark or
Competency level, but there is a need to focus on specifics like UNION.  ...Our
competency map will go into two directions - what is this about and how deep is
the competency?

Kai: Markdown supports links, it should be possible to have a document with
clustered competencies with #anchors and then create links for the resources
that point to the competencies. First start of a structured version

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Next week's call - draft agenda:

https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-09-25.agenda.md

