    [A] Fundamentals of Resource Description Framework 

        [B] RDF data model 

            [C] Understands that the purpose of RDF is to provide a flexible,
                domain-independent data model that can be used by multiple
                applications.  

            [C] Understands that the basic building block of RDF is an
                entity-attribute-value triple, called a statement.  

            [C] Understands that it is necessary for users to define the
                terminology they use within these statements.

                [D] Uses RDF Schema to precisely describe how their vocabulary
                    (i.e. their terminology) should be interpreted.

            [C] Understands that RDF (data model), combined with a syntax (e.g.
                RDF/XML, Turtle) and a semantics (RDFS), make up a standard
                language for exchanging arbitrary data between machines.

            [C] Understands that while RDF is often used as the name for this
                data exchange language as a whole, it more accurately references
                the data model component.

        [B] RDF data model 

            [C] Understands that the fundamental concepts of the RDF data model
                are resources, properties, statements, and graphs.

            [C] Understands that every resource (“thing”) must have a URI.

            [C] Understands that a URI can be either a URL (web address) or
                another kind of unique identifier.

            [C] Understands that the purpose of the URI is to unambiguously
                identity a resource (“thing”).
                
                [D] Follows the best practice of using dereferencable URIs so
                    that users can either retrieve the resource itself or a further
                    description of that resource.  

            [C] Understands that properties are a special kind of resource
                which are used to describe relations between other resources.
                
                [D] Uses URIs to identify properties; dereferencable URIs so
                    that users can find their descriptions.
            
        [B] RDF data model 

            [C] Understands that statements assert the properties of resources
                and consist of an entity-attribute-value triple.

            [C] Understands that subject-predicate-object is also a common
                (more common?) way to describe the parts of a triple.

            [C] Understands that the object (value) can either be a literal (an
                atomic value such as a number, string, or date) or another resource

        [B] RDF data model 

            [C] Understands that RDF statements can be represented as graphs
                with labeled nodes connected by labeled arcs.

            [C] Understands that the arcs are directed from the subject to the
                object of the statement and that the label on the arc identifies
                the statement’s property.

            [C] Understands that the object of one statement can be the subject
                of another, expanding the graph outward to include more
                information.

            [C] Understands that the graph can be created in a distributed
                fashion by multiple users, as long as they are all using the same
                URLs to describe the resources.

        [B] RDF data model 

            [C] Understands that there are two approaches for pointing to
                particular statements and parts of graphs in order to provide more
                information about that statement- reification and named graphs.

                [D] Introduces an auxiliary object (such as LocationStatement) and
                    relates it to each of the three parts of a statement, then uses
                    this object as the value in another triple to provide more
                    information (reification).

                [D] Uses a URL as an explicit identifier for a statement or set
                    of statements, then refers to this identifier in other triples
                    (named graphs).

                [D] Uses a series statements consisting of binary predicates
                    combined with an auxiliary resource connecting the pairs to
                    describe more complicated relationships  (e.g X is the broker
                    in a home-sale between seller Y and purchaser Z; home-sale is
                    the auxiliary resource)

        [B] RDF serialization

        [C] Understands that the "graph model" is just one of many RDF
            syntaxes, and that it is neither standardized or machine-readable.

