======================================================================
#SPARQL/CRUD ASSIGNMENTS
It was difficult to find resources devoted solely to the topic of CRUD operations using SPARQL, so some of these 
resources only have a few slides/pages/paragraphs which are relevant. A few of them only approach the topic tangentially, but 
hopefully we can glean some competencies from them anyway.

======================================================================


Tom assignments
================

*  Building Semantic Web CRUD Operations Using PHP
   http://dhirajpatra.blogspot.com/2011/05/building-semantic-web-crud-operations.html

  * Note: A blog posting, with poorly formatted and mostly unusable code examples, not 
    particularly good as tutorial material.

* PHP Semantic Web CRUD operations
   http://www.databaseskill.com/2506239/

  * Note: A blog posting, rather poorly written, with mangled and ungrammatical sentences
    and badly formatted code examples.  It also seems to plagiarize the dhirajpatra.blogspot.com
    posting, or perhaps vice versa.

*  MarkLogic Semantics – Under the Hood
   http://www.marklogic.com/resources/marklogic-semantics-hood/resource_download/presentations/

  * Note: These Powerpoint slides are designed to be used in a classroom situation, with 
    lots of explanatory context.  They do not really provide enough context and explanation 
    to be usable on their own.

General comment: I think most details of the SPARQL CRUD operations should be
benchmarks, not competencies.  As I see it, the high-level competencies are
knowing how to add and delete triples from RDF graphs and understanding how the
SPARQL-based CRUD techniques relate to pervasive SQL techniques.

[C] Understands how to add and delete triples in RDF graphs using SPARQL update 
    operations.

[C] Understands how SQL operates on tables, SPARQL on graphs, and how the basic 
    components of the two models (keys, attributes, and cell data versus subjects,
    predicates, and objects) relate to each other.

[D] Can scope a CRUD operation to a specific RDF graph by using the MODIFY keyword.

[D] Can insert triples into a graph using the SPARQL INSERT operation.

[D] Can delete triples from a graph using the SPARQL DELETE operation.

Stuart assignments
================
*  SPARQL by Example
   http://www.cambridgesemantics.com/semantic-university/sparql-by-example
   _NOTE: You have to arrow key through the slides; relevant section is about 3/4 of the way through the presentation._

*  Implementing Graph Transformation Languages using RDF Storage and SPARQL Queries
   https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/files/techReports/SPARQL_2012.pdf

*  Apache Jena TDB CRUD operations
   http://tutorial-academy.com/apache-jena-tdb-crud-operations/

Debbie assignments
================
*  SPARQL Cheat Sheet
   http://www.slideshare.net/LeeFeigenbaum/sparql-cheat-sheet?next_slideshow=1

[C] Understands CRUD's overall relationship to HTTP (RESTful) methods, and when REST/HTTP would be preferred to triplestores and CRUD

[C] Understands INSERT command of the "UPDATE" variety in CRUD to change existing triples

[C] Understands DELETE command of the "Delete" variety in CRUD to delete existing triples

[C] Understands LOAD command of the "Update" variety in CRUD to load new triples into your dataset

[C] Understands CLEAR command as of the "Delete" Variety, used to eliminate a graph/dataset triples

[C] Understands CREATE command, a CRUD operation of the "Create" variety, to add a completely new graph

[C] Understands DROP command, a CRUD operation of the "Delete" variety, to delete a graph/triples from a dataset
   
   _NOTE: Only one slide (#17) covers relevant topics._
*  SPARQL 1.1 Graph Store HTTP Protocol
   http://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-http-rdf-update/

[C] Understands using the request URI to identify RDF graph content directly for manipulation via GET (to "read"), PUT, DELETE and POST (to alter) (The CRUD variety)

[C] Understands using the request URI to identify RDF graph content INdirectly for manipulation via GET (to "read"), PUT, DELETE and POST (to alter) (The CRUD variety)

[C] Understands overall graph management operations (CRUD)

[C] Understands that the GET method MUST retrieve an RDF payload that is a serialization of the named graph paired with the graph IRI in the Graph Store

[C] Understands the GET and CONSTRUCT equivalencies

[C] Understands equivalency between PUT and DROP-INSERT operations

[C] Understands the DELETE command shoudl delete RDF graph content identified by either the request or encoded IRI

[C] DELETE equivalent to DROP DEFAULT
 
[C] The POST method and a request IRI that identifies RDF graph content MUST be understood as a request that the origin server perform an RDF merge of the enclosed RDF payload enclosed into the RDF graph content identified by the request or encoded IRI.

[C] POST and INSERT are equivalent

[C] HTTP HEAD method is identical to GET except that the server MUST NOT return a message-body in the response

[C] PUT and PATCH (latter contains a list of instructions for modifications)

Kai assignments
================
## SPARQL 1.1 ##
   http://www.slideshare.net/andyseaborne/sparql-11-update?next_slideshow=1

A good but very broad overview slideset on changes/additions in SPARQL 1.1.

Potential competency area: History of SPARQL and/or RDF, standardization process.

* [D] Uses aggregates to apply expressions over groups of solutions
                (GROUP BY, COUNT, SUM, AVG, MIN) for partitioning results,
* [D] Uses the GROUP BY clause to transforms a result set so that only
                one row will appear for each unique set of grouping variables 
* [D] Uses the HAVING clause to apply a filter to the result set after
                grouping
* [D] Uses NOT EXISTS to limit whether a given graph pattern exists in
                the data
* [C] Understands the role of Property Paths and how they are formed by
            combining predicates with regular expression-like operators
* [C] Understands the SPARQL Graph Store HTTP protocol for editing 
            graphs on remote servers

Missing as [D]: DELETE, INSERT, DELETE-INSERT, 

* [C] Uses SPARQL to inserting, deleting, modifying RDF data
  * [D] Uses POST to add triples to an existing graph
  * [D] Uses GET to retrieve triples from a default graph or a named graph
  * [D] Uses PUT to insert set of triples into a new graph (or replace an existing graph)
  * [D] Uses DELETE to remove a graph

* [B] RDF serialization

Missing: JSON-LD, maybe all serializations as benchmark?


## Curling SPARQL HTTP Graph Store protocol ##
   http://blog.mynarz.net/2015/05/curling-sparql-http-graph-store-protocol.html

  Besides some typos a well-written blog post that can be used directly to learn and try the SPARQL graph store protocol.

  * [C] Understands the SPARQL Graph Store HTTP protocol for editing 
            graphs on remote servers
  * [C] Uses SPARQL to inserting, deleting, modifying RDF data
    * [D] Uses POST to add triples to an existing graph
    * [D] Uses GET to retrieve triples from a default graph or a named graph
    * [D] Uses PUT to insert set of triples into a new graph (or replace an existing graph)
    * [D] Uses DELETE to remove a graph
    * [D] Uses proper syntax to request specific media types, such as Turtle

Comment: The distinction of graph store protocol and SPARQL UPDATE needs further clarification, e.g.:

  * [B] Manipulating RDF Data
	* [C] Understands the SPARQL Graph Store HTTP protocol for editing 
            graphs on remote servers
		* [D] Uses POST to add triples to an existing graph
		* [D] Uses GET to retrieve triples from a default graph or a named graph
		* [D] Uses PUT to insert set of triples into a new graph (or replace an existing graph)
		* [D] Uses DELETE to remove a graph
		* [D] Uses proper syntax to request specific media types, such as Turtle
	* [C] Uses SPARQL to inserting, deleting, modifying RDF data
	  * [D] Uses INSERT to add triples
	  * [D] Uses DELETE to remove triples
	  * [D] Uses INSERT-DELETE to update triples
			
Magnus assignments
================
*  CRUD operations on RDF content
   http://callimachusproject.org/docs/1.1/articles/crud-operations-on-rdf-content.docbook?view

Is not really a learning resource.

[C] Uses SPARQL to inserting, deleting, modifying RDF data

[C] Understands the SPARQL Graph Store HTTP protocol for editing graphs on remote servers

[D] Uses POST to add triples to an existing graph

[D] Uses GET to retrieve triples from a default graph or a named graph

[D] Uses DELETE to remove a graph

[D] Uses proper syntax to request specific media types, such as Turtle  


*  Access Control for HTTP Operations on Linked Data
   http://eswc-conferences.org/sites/default/files/papers2013/costabello.pdf

None of the competencies from the index apply in my opinion. Could someone please check if I understand something wrong?

[C] Knows about measures for securing access to data and APIs

Sean assignments
================

*  Learning SPARQL: 2nd Edition	
   http://learningsparql.com/

   _NOTE: In the print version, Chapter 6: Updating Data with SPARQL (p.185-215)._
[C] Understands SPARQL/CRUD's relationship to HTTP methods (added by Debbie)

[C] Understands that SPARQL 1.1 allows one not just to QUERY data in a collection, but also to add to, delete from and update that data (i.e. it is not just a query language, but an update language). 

[D] Uses a SPARQL server (such as as Fuseki) to interact with a triplestore via a web form and/or HTTP requests. 
   
[C] Understands that the SPARQL Update specification calls for the term “update request” to be used in place of “query”.

[D] Uses “a” as a shorthand for the URI <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#type>.
   
[D] Uses the extension “.ru” for files storing SPARQL Update requests.
   
---------------------------

[C] Understands that INSERT DATA and INSERT are used to add data to a collection.

[C] Understands that INSERT DATA cannot include a WHERE clause and can only uses specific triples to add data- which is faster for the SPARQL processor and is considered best practice when patterns are necessary for the added data.

[C] Understands that INSERT includes a WHERE clause and allows one to use triple patterns- but is slower for the SPARQL processor. 

[D] Uses the SPARQL LOAD operation to load an entire web-accessible dataset at once.
   
[D] Uses CREATE GRAPH to create an empty graph.
   
---------------------------

[C] Understands that DELETE DATA and INSERT DELETE are used to remove data to a collection.

[C] Understands that DELETE DATA corresponds to INSERT DATA and only allows the use of specific triples to delete data.

[C] Understands that DELETE corresponds to INSERT and allows one to use triple patterns.

[D] Uses DELETE WHERE as a shortcut to delete any triples matched in the WHERE graph pattern.

[D] Uses the CLEAR command to clear all triples from a default graph.
   
---------------------------

[C] Understands that changes to existing triples are performed as a delete operation followed by an insert operation, which is referred to as an "INSERT/DELETE" update request.

[D] Uses a CONSTRUCT query to preview changes which will be made before executing an INSERT/DELETE update request.

[D] Uses semicolons to connect multiple operations in update requests.
   
---------------------------

[C] Understands that inserting triples into a named graph which does not exist will result in the SPARQL Processor creating that graph. 

[C] Understands that the use of INSERT DATA vs INSERT with a WHERE clause is the same with named graphs as it si when working with default graphs.

---------------------------

[C] Understands the difference between DELETE (removes triples) and DROP (removes graphs).

[C] Understands that a dropped default graph still exists, but is now empty.

[D] Uses DROP to delete a graph from a dataset. 

[D] Uses DROP DEFAULT to clear the default graph. 

[C] Understands that SPARQL Update offers no UNDO operation before deleting graphs. 

[D] Uses DROP ALL to drop the default graph and all named graphs.

[C] Understands that DROP removes complete graphs and CLEAR removes triples from within graphs, leaving an empty graph.

---------------------------

[C] Understands that the use of DELETE DATA vs DELETE with a WHERE clause is the same as when working with default graphs, except that     the graph must now be named. 

[D] Uses CLEAR followed by the name of a specific graph to clear all triples from a named graph.
	
[D] Uses CLEAR NAMED to clear all triples from all named graphs.
	
[D] Uses CLEAR ALL to clear all triples from all named graphs and the default graph.
	
---------------------------
	
[D] Uses WITH as a shortcut when working with named graphs to avoid using the name of a graph in the remainder of the update              request (makes it less verbose when performing multiple operations).

[C] Understands that WITH does not work with INSERT DATA, so INSERT with a WHERE clause must be used instead.

[D] Uses USING to specify a graph that a WHERE clause should look at (similar to FROM and SELECT).

[D] Uses caution when combing WITH and USING to avoid confusion as to which part of the update each refers.

[D] Uses USING NAMED to specify a graph that will be referenced by name (similar to FROM NAMED and SELECT).
   
---------------------------

[C] Understands that COPY and MOVE operations allow one to copy and move triples between named graphs and between the default graph and a named graph.

[D] Uses COPY to copy triples from one graph into another, replacing any existing triples in the destination graph. 

[D] Uses MOVE to move triples from one graph into another, replacing any existing triples in the destination graph. 

---------------------------

*  RDFAlchemy
   http://www.openvest.com/trac/wiki/RDFAlchemy


[D] Uses the properties of object-oriented programming languages (such as Python) to create APIs (such as RDFAlchemy) which provide access to RDF triplestores.

[D] Uses APIs (such as RDFAlchemy) to map between data located in relational databases and a SPARQL endpoint.

[C] Understands that descriptors can be used to  binds an instance variable to the calls to the RDF backend storage.

[D] Uses rdflib Descriptors to define classes, implemt caching, then passes the predicate in to create objects which can be used to perform CRUD operations.

[C] Understands that descriptors can be pulled from either an RDF triplestore or a relational database (via sister tool SQLAlchemy), allowing one to mix and match SQL, rdflib and SPARQL data.

---------------------------

*  Simple example of manipulating graph data using SPARQL Update
   https://anandavala.wordpress.com/2013/06/02/sparql-update-example-code-for-create-insert-delete-edit/

[C]  Understands that  a programming language (such as Java) can be used to interact with an API (such as Apache Jena) and perform CRUD operations.

[D] Writes a main function to implement the application logic using SPARQL commands expressed as strings.

[D] Uses helper functions to access the graph store.
 
