LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 1 (Fri 2015-07-31) - notes

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-31.notes.md
* Agenda:   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-31.agenda.md
* Attended: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Magnus, Debbie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIONs

* Tom to post Doodle poll for three calls in September/October.
* Agenda for Telecon #2: "competencies related to SPARQL".
* Tom and Sean to assign reviews from a list of resources about SPARQL [1].

[1] https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-30.review_list_SPARQL.md

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Mode of operation - Skype calls

* Hour-long monthly Skype calls
* Three calls in September / October; once per month thereafter.
* For each call, CIEB members review several resources -- videos, tutorial 
  materials -- as assigned by chairs.
* Agendas and minutes for calls will be maintained in a closed Github
  repository [1] with access limited to members of the CIEB (and any other
  interested participant in the LD4PE project [2].

[1] https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb
[2] https://github.com/orgs/ld4pe/teams/compindexeb

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Mode of operation - Review of materials and formulation of competencies

* "Review" means determining which learning competencies are addressed by
  the resource in question.  "Review" does _not_ involve assessing the
  quality of resources.
* Before each call, members will edit a shared Google doc to add several 
  one-line formulations of the competencies they found addressed in 
  their materials.
* The goal of each meeting will be to consolidate a short list of 
  draft competencies.
* Between calls, the new competencies will be wordsmithed in the Google 
  doc, then approved on the next call.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Mode of operation - Publication workflow

* Approved competencies will be added (or modified) in the RDF representation
  of the Competency Index [1] and periodically exported in a form importable
  by the plugin used to generate the display on the LD4PE website [2].

[1] https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/CompIndex
[2] http://explore.dublincore.org/rdf/ci-preview/
  
----------------------------------------------------------------------
CIEB membership - core members

The CIEB is starting with six core members.  (Core members commit to
participating in the monthly calls.)  A few additional people may be 
recruited as core members; names were discussed.

Co-chairs
* Tom Baker
* Sean Dolan

Core Members
* Kai Eckert
* Stuart Sutton
* Magnus Pfeffer
* Debbie Maron

----------------------------------------------------------------------
CIEB membership - invited experts

The Board will invited experts in particular topics to comment on 
existing competencies or formulate new competencies.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Discussion on first call

__Tom__: [Introduces LD4PE. Cannot take notes while speaking :-)]

__Stuart__: Tagging and linking is done through Linked Data principles -- 
each competency has a URI.  Attached to the competency are benchmarks that
demonstrate.  We will have discussions around scope.

Sources of competencies: "Resource warrant" is one way to derive competencies.
"Literary warrant" is another.  Looking at Bizer and Heath: table of content
shows competencies.  Debbie has found syllabi.  "Experts" - we all know people.

In order to give all of this a focus, out of all of the areas of competency of
Linked Data, we picked SPARQL as a starting point.  One outcome: work out a
methodology for development of these competency indexes.  We are interested in 
how this leads to community means for developing these competency frameworks.

__Tom__: [Discusses proposed mode of operation. Opens for questions]

__Kai__: Need to have hierarchies of competencies?  To understand basic 
visualization techniques.  At least as important as the competency.

__Stuart__: You have put your finger on it.  You are right - a given resource
will assume prerequisite knowledge.  Legitimate question.  Off the top of your
head: here are some prerequisite competencies that would be needed.  So
actually, in terms of process: no set way to do this other than gathering
experts in room.  That group would 1) define competencies to do one thing, and
2) pre-requisite competencies.  Project is developing tools to doing those
paths.  So focus for now is on competencies - note down the candidate
competencies.

__Tom__: Can identify competencies that are 'broader' or 'narrower'.

__Kai__: I have image in my mind - that we map the field like explorers.
Framed by learning resources that actually exist.  We just say: This is how
to come here.  Maybe adds up into map of the field.

__Stuart__: We will be enabling learning path - that logical prerequisite
structure.  If you can imagine a space populated with all competencies, as an
overlay have various pathways defined.  We can now be noting down those
prequisites, and follow-on prerequisites.

