LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 1 (Fri 2015-07-31)

* Agenda:   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-31.agenda.md
* Expected: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Magnus, maybe Debbie
* Time:     Thursday, 2015-07-30, 0700 SFO / 1000 NYC / 1600 BER
* Where:    Skype

----------------------------------------------------------------------
About CIEB (Tom and Stuart)

*  LD4PE Project and role of Competency Index

    Role of [Learning Linked Data project](http://lld.ischool.uw.edu/learning/)

*  Competency Index Model (see [definitions](https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-30.definitions.txt))

    Topical cluster
    Topic 
    Competency (ASN "statement")
    Benchmark

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Agenda for Telecon #2: "competencies related to SPARQL"

* On the basis of our review of [resources about SPARQL](https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-30.review_list_SPARQL.md)

* Let's improve the following "starter set" of competencies:

    Competency Index for RDF and Linked Data

        Topic cluster: Searching and querying

            Topic: Anatomy of a simple SPARQL query    
                Competency: Can read and understand which predefined namespaces are loaded into a SPARQL endpoint.
                Competency: Can use PREFIX to add a namespace to a SPARQL query.
                Competency: Can select the appropriate classes and properties from available namespaces to form queries.

            Topic: Querying RDF data using SPARQL 
                Competency: Understands the SPARQL 1.1 query language, protocol, functions and operators
                Competency: Uses query forms including ASK, SELECT, DESCRIBE, CONSTRUCT
                Competency: Uses query patterns including BGP, UNION, OPTIONAL, FILTER
                Competency: Uses sequence modifiers including DISTINCT, REDUCED, ORDER BY, LIMIT, OFFSET

            Topic: Updating RDF with SPARQL 1.1    
                Competency: Performs data management using INSERT, DELETE, DELETE/INSERT
                Competency: Performs graph management using LOAD, CLEAR, CREATE, DROP, COPY/MOVE/ADD

    Sean's suggestion

            Topic: Anatomy of a simple SPARQL query    

                Competency: Is able to read and understand which predefined namespaces are loaded into a SPARQL endpoint.

                    Benchmark: For example, recognizes that the PREFIX owl:
                    <http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#> represents the "The OWL 2 Schema
                    vocabulary (OWL 2)"

                Competency: Demonstrates knowledge of using PREFIX to add a namespace to a SPARQL query.    

                    Benchmark: For example, knows that adding PREFIX nmo:
                    <http://nomisma.org/ontology#> allows the SPARQL query to access the
                    Nomisma Ontology.

                Competency: Is able to select the appropriate classes and properties from
                available namespaces to form relevant queries using the
                subject-predicate-object pattern. For example, the line "?types
                nmo:hasMaterial  nm:ar" asks for subjects (?types ) which have the property
                of being made from (nmo:hasMaterial) silver (nm:ar).

                    Benchmark: Using data obtained from SPARQL queries Understands how to
                    export query results in various formats and load them into other tools to
                    create visualizations. For example, can export SPARQL query results as CSV
                    into Google Fusion Tables, then create charts or "mashup" maps to showcase
                    the data.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
CIEB Github and Wiki

-  CIEB homepage
   http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/CompIndexEB
-  LD4PE Competency Index (in RDF), occasionally updated
   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/CompIndex
-  LD4PE Competency Index, as currently published on the Web
   http://explore.dublincore.org/rdf/ci-preview/
-  LD4PE Project homepage
   http://explore.dublincore.org/

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Meetings

Proposal: 
* Meet twice in September, twice in October, then possibly once 
  per month thereafter.
* One hour on Skype
* To prepare, CIEB members review several resources (videos, tutorial 
  materials), as assigned on a call, and post to the list several one-line 
  formulations of competencies addressed in the materials reviewed, for
  discussion on the call.
* The goal of each meeting will be to agree on the general idea underlying 
  new competencies, and to agree on the precise formulation of competencies
  previously discussed.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
CIEB membership

Membership model: core CIEB members + invited experts

Co-chairs
* Tom Baker <tom@tombaker.org>, SkypeID tbaker9957
* Sean Dolan <sdolan5@kent.edu>, SkypeID sdolan51

Core Members
* Kai Eckert <eckert@hdm-stuttgart.de>, SkypeID kaiec
* Stuart Sutton <sasutton@dublincore.net>, SkypeID sasutton
* Magnus Pfeffer <pfeffer@hdm-stuttgart.de>, SkypeID mapfde

Potential members?  Invited experts?
* Corey Harper <corey.harper@nyu.edu>, SkypeID charper42
* Monika Szunejko <mszunejko@nla.gov.au>, Director of Database Services, Natl Library of Australia 
* Seth van Hooland <svhoolan@ulb.ac.be>
* Deborah Maron <maron@live.unc.edu>, SkypeID debbie.maron2
