LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 4 (Fri 2015-10-16) - notes

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-10-16.notes.md
* Previous: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-09-25.notes.md
* Attended: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Magnus, Debbie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Summary

We discussed the Subject Vocabulary (Topic Index) with 
[revisions proposed by Tom](https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/TopicIndex/LD4PE-TopicVocab-v2-tb.txt).

The resulting changes can be viewed [on Github](https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/commit/6bdc9f47f90e90e136a86e7f7b803428af388c01) -
click, in the upper right, on the "Split" view.

In the absence of further corrections or comments, [this version](https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/TopicIndex/LD4PE-TopicVocab-v3.txt) 
will be considered "approved" as of Wednesday, 21 October, and Stuart can 
proceed to integrate it into the WP site.  See also below for the text of the Topic 
Index.

The next call will probably be on November 20 or 27 as per 
[Doodle poll](http://doodle.com/poll/fzut2w97q34e94xx).  On the 
next call, we will try to finalize the set of competencies related
to SPARQL.

After finishing SPARQL-related competencies, we will proceed to 
populate the topic "Fundamentals of Resource Description Framework".
Sean is pulling together relevant resources for review.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of the Subject Vocabulary (Topic Index)


__Tom__: Let's try to get approval on this call, if possible, of the Topic Vocab.
We have an original proposal, and my suggested revisions.

__Debbie__: Problems with DC-Review group email

__Kai__: Also sent 4 or 5 emails that didn't go through

__Tom__: checking DC-Review jisc. last messages are from monday and tuesday.  We
will get this sorted out.  In the meantime, just use everyone's email
addresses.

[Kai resends emails.]

[Magnus was sick last few days, hasn't been reading email.]

__Tom__: Friday time spot works for everyone?  [All agree.]
Will post doodle poll for next call three or four weeks from now.

__Kai__: Starting with last email (are now in reverse chronological order)...
Developed strong feelings about "Subject Vocab" terminology.  We talk about
"topic" all the time, so let's call it topic index.  dc-subject argument did
not convince me.

__Stuart__: "agnostic" on subject, lean towards "topic"

__Tom__: Set of topics used for indexing, not an "index" itself.

__Kai__: "hierarchy" is the most neutral term, not really a vocabulary.

__Stuart__: We do index by the topics.  Learning resources directly to the topic.
Topics at the level of the competencies are just there to create "buckets" for
clustering. Not for directly indexing.  Prohibition to indexing to topical
layers.

__Tom__: Is Competency Index is an established "term of art"?

__Stuart__: We do see it. OCLC Competency Index for library field. Then there are
competency "frameworks".  Occasionally called "indexes".

__Tom__: Think we are all in agreement on "topic". If we have a Comp. "Index" might
as well have Topic "Index"

__Kai__: Likes consistency. Would compare to some thesauri.  Index terms with
organizing hierarchy on top.

__Stuart__: Created problem for ourselves by, in the beginning, by not stripping
out the top two layers, creating vocab in SKOS, and having them point to the 
CompIndex.  We are in implementation stage now.

__Kai__: equating RDF with Linked Data.  Add topic with non-RDF LD.  it exists. can
apply same principles

__Stuart__: +1.  Marjorie Hlava's comments. Mechanisms for LD that are not RDF.  We
will not be going there in LD4PE (beyond scope).

__Kai__: One good example: schema.org with microdata.

__Tom__: Rationale for splitting off (fundamentals of LF)

__Stuart__: Add heading.  Placeholder may not be populated.
Can wordsmith later in non-RDF doesn't feel right.

__Tom__: Wording does not have to be 100% right today.  Just need to be clear onthe
concepts.

__Kai__: Agree with distinguishing RDF and LD -- different topics.  As for
"scaling" topics, agree we should exclude from our work right now. maybe if we
want, leave a placeholder. Creating LD applications.  Email responding to use
of technology names in topic index.  Agree with Tom (not to).  Except in case
of W3C recommendations (such as SPARQL).

__Tom__: Not quite clear what consequences for our Topics are (actual edits in the 
document today).

__Kai__: I like Tom's approach: "Querying LD".

__Kai__: My opinion: technology that is W3C recomendations would be fine 
to mention by name in a topic.

__Stuart__: Interesting mechanism for drawing distinction.  If RDF is
acceptable, also use SPARQL. But I'm not suggesting making a change at this
point. Just good way of thinking about it.

__Tom__: We are going to get feedback about it.  I prefer Querying LD, but if
it ends up Querying LD with SPARQL also OK.

__Kai__: +1 regarding serialization vs syntax

__Stuart__: +1 serialization

__Kai__: Now through the whole list of "Sean's comments".
In email "CIEB Proposal for": "RDF mindset"

__Stuart__: This replaced something that was even more ambiguous.

__Tom__: Wouldn't mind taking it out

__Stuart__: Wait ... job descriptions often mention "habits of mind" - the word
often shows up somewhere.  More prevalent at expert proficiency level.  Do we
actually have resources that *teach* that? Probably not.  Part of shift from
novice to expert - growth - being able to do things on own.

__Kai__: Understand what you mean, but cannot fit it into this list of topics

__Stuart__: In terms of professional practice, top level - similiar to
constructing ontology ...

__Tom__: Suggest we take it out for now, if we have resources that don't fit
other category, maybe will be warranted

__Stuart__: Something that results from work and experience, not taught

__Kai__: Next Topic: add *non-RDF* related resources. Related data models ... topic modeling

__Tom__: Topic maps a good point.  Put under Fundamentals of RDF? Don't really belong there.

__Kai__: Sure, but under "related data models".

__Kai__: "Models for Data Provenance"- drop "Models for"

__Kai__: "Cleaning Reconciling and Enriching"- three terms or together?
Mapping and Enriching data also closely related.  To enrich, first have to map,
find corresponding terms Mapping and "matching" also very close

__Tom__: Good proposal: Cleaning and Reconciling, Mapping and Enriching

__Kai__: Question for native speakers- cleaning or cleansing?

__Stuart__: Americans would say cleaning, but not put off by cleansing

__Kai__: in my research group, cleansing used all time

__Tom__: I would use cleaning

__Kai__: Keep in mind, when we see resources, these two topics might be good
candidates for splitting. index, have to see what works best

__Stuart__: That one was originally mine. Based on process- frequently happen
at same time. Might get resources that deal with individual parts.

__Tom__: Dhange data provenance to "RDF data provenance" - consistency in
terms. Okay?

__Kai__: RDF data shapes too specific and new, would not have as topic right
now.  Maybe "RDF validation' instead

__Stuart__: Will be seeing webinars etc on this soon

__Kai__: When W3C working group has finished, then would be a topic.  Drop
datashapes, and add application profiles to vocabularies.  Validation goes to
cleaning or reconciling, if we find it.

__Kai__: Programming languages for LD: I don't think there is such a thing.
libraries or API instead. or just call it "programming LD".

__Stuart__: Larger umbrella.

__Kai__: "managing LD" - not sure what this is.
Be sure what we mean or rename it.

__Tom__: "Managing identitifiers" - purls or dois ...

__Stuart__: namespace policies

__Kai__: drop managing and creating LD with SPARQL- already covered elsewhere?

__Tom__: managing identifiers should go up with RDF vocabs.
Missing RDF authorities- things like VIAF.

__Kai__: extend RDF Vocabs to RDF Vocabs and Authorities?

__Tom__: was just thinking that

__Kai__: actually, I'm against adding authorities. only talking about them
because we are librarians. viaf not essentially different from any other Linked
Data.
"Creating RDF data": put "managing identifiers" there.

__Stuart__: Agreed.

__Kai__: "Linked Data analytics": what is this? Have an idea.  Do you mean statistical?

__Tom__: Big Data stuff... looking for patterns

__Stuart__: At conclusion of Ethan Gruber's SPARQL in 60 minutes he discusses
anticipated uses of SPARQL for analyzing data for ferreting out.  Using SPARQL
beyond normal uses (discovery).  Example: ASN has repos of over 2000 frameworks
used for gap analysis all being done with RDF - different states approaching
different topics ....

__Kai__: Knowledge engineering- LD perceived as important resource

__Tom__: could have competency framework all around Big Data and analytics- LD
would be a subtopic of that.  So, could be persuaded to drop LD analytics

__Sean__: Very few of the resources I have seen address this.

__Stuart__: Anectodal evidence, Sean could attest. heavy on resources on lower
end of proficeny - novice and beginner

__Kai__: LD analytics too specific from my POV

__Stuart__: just plain Data Analytics then?  This index will be interesting
tool for gap analysis.  Keep LD analytics for now.

__Kai__: REST architecture and services- could also be under fundamentals of
LD.  Hard to distinguish for APIs for LD.

__Tom__: how about "LD Architecture and Services" under Fundamentals of RDF"?

__Tom__: Top of the hour.  Think we have arrived at visibly improved topic
index.  Will post link so can see changes highlighted side by side.  Suggest we
keep this open for a few days.  Mistakes or issues raise on list.  Silence
taken as consent.  Reply if necessary by next Wednesday, then declare we will
consider it "good enough" for now.

__Stuart__: My hope on production side, need 1: updating of existing data and
2: Index in ASN.  Salvage as much of current mapping and indexing as possible.
Vocab, once SKOS-ified, has to be loaded into angular JS resource editor.

__Tom__: Doodle Poll, next call Nov 13 or 20?  Will post minutes and diff to
new version.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Next steps

__Stuart__: Final question for Tom- next area headed into is Fundamentals

__Tom__: Continue to refine SPARQL with goal of finalizing on next call.
Attention to competencies with CRUD -- Create Read Updates Delete.  Use
resource warrant and expert warrant on Fundamentals

__Stuart__: Feel free to create competency even if no resources currently


----------------------------------------------------------------------
Topic Index (with changes approved on the call)

Fundamentals of Resource Description Framework
    Identity in RDF
    RDF data model
    Related data models
    RDF serialization

Fundamentals of Linked Data
    Web technology
    Linked data principles
    Linked Data architectures and services
    Linked Data policies and best practices
    Non-RDF Linked Data

RDF vocabularies
    Finding RDF vocabularies
    Maintaining RDF vocabularies
    Versioning RDF vocabularies
    Publishing RDF vocabularies
    Mapping RDF vocabularies
    RDF application profiles

Creating and transforming Linked Data
    Managing identifiers (URIs)
    Creating RDF data
    Versioning RDF data
    RDF data provenance
    Cleaning and reconciling RDF data
    Mapping and enriching RDF data

Interacting with Linked Data
    Programming Linked Data
    Querying Linked Data
    Visualizing Linked Data
    Reasoning over RDF
    Assessing Linked Data quality
    Linked Data analytics

Creating Linked Data applications
    Storing RDF data
    Linked Data application architecture
    Linked Data mashups

