LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 11 (Fri 2016-05-13)

* Agenda:   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-05-13.cieb-agenda.md
* Previous: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-04-08.cieb-notes.md
* Expected: Tom, Sean, Stuart, Debbie, Magnus, Kai.
* Time:     0600 SFO / 0900 NYC / 1500 BER
* WebEx:    https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=M7QUL7STXQQW1L8E0TCCYVBEFX-JV0D
  * Meeting number: 197 209 175
  * Audio Connection +1-415-655-0001 US TOLL
  * Access code: 190 952 037
  * Support: https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/support
  * Meeting password: This meeting does not require a password.

======================================================================
CIEB calls - Fridays at the usual time (see above)

* http://doodle.com/poll/np47qhu7tc6k46q6

  * June 3
  * June 24   - regrets: Debbie

* September/October - one or two final calls

======================================================================
Gaps and corrections

* http://tinyurl.com/ld4pe-competencies-may13
  
  I would like to walk through this latest printout on the call,
  making some corrections immediately and noting where there are 
  gaps to be filled.

* Non-RDF linked data (note the lowercase)

  Topic Maps - Sam Oh?
  Microdata - syntactically different from RDF
  Graph databases, such as Neo4j.


======================================================================
ACTIONS

* Tom
  * generate new Google Doc
  * send Google Doc address to Mike Lauruhn. Add: We do not think that it is
    appropriate to classify competencies by proficiency level (Beginner, etc).
    However, we _do_ think it is appropriate to classify particular resources
    by level.
  * prepare diff that Stuart can use to edit new version of CI
  * add full stops to the end of each competency and prepare separate diff
  * propose approach using Github for long-term community-driven maintenance of
    CI.
  * self: remind Tom Johnson to review Ruby competencies
  * John Kunze: one competency on management of ARKs?
  * create list of issues and gaps
  * competencies on topic maps (Sam)?

* Debbie
  * contact advisor about competencies for "temporarily indexed data" (and
    looking at the CI in general)
  * ask Ryan for competencies re: period identifiers for temporally indexed
    data, with a link to PERIODO work.

* Stuart:
  * write Diane re: cleaning data
  * ping Seth and Ruben
  * check whether http://explore.dublincore.net/comp-index/ will continue to be maintained

* Kai
  * write provenance competency about differentiating simple approach and
    representing the chain

* Sean:
  * contact Barry Norton and Elena Simperl, formerly of the EUCLID Project and
    currently teaching a Future Learn MOOC, "Introduction to Linked Data and
    the Semantic Web".

