LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 12 (Fri 2016-06-03) - notes

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-06-03.cieb-notes.md
* Previous: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-05-13.cieb-notes.md
* Expected: Tom, Sean, Stuart, Debbie, Magnus, Kai.
* Time:     0600 SFO / 0900 NYC / 1500 BER
* WebEx:    https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=MCXU18LHBGE7D851TGO2SXUFGY-JV0D
  * Meeting number: 198 086 940
  * Audio Connection +1-415-655-0001 US TOLL
  * Support: https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/support
  * Meeting password: This meeting does not require a password.

======================================================================
CIEB calls - Fridays at the usual time (see above)

* http://doodle.com/poll/np47qhu7tc6k46q6

  * June 24   - regrets: Debbie

* September/October - one or two final calls

======================================================================
Gaps and corrections - http://tinyurl.com/ld4pe-competencies-may14

__Stuart__: I only see three areas:

* Non-RDF linked data (note the lowercase) - last entry under "Fundamentals of Linked Data"
  * Microdata - syntactically different from RDF
  * Graph databases, such as Neo4j.
  * Topic Maps

* Versioning RDF data and RDF data provenance
  * Kai's work

* Assessing RDF data quality
  * Stuart with Diane

__Tom__: 

* Storing RDF data
  * SPARQL endpoints
  * Triple stores
  
* Low-hanging fruit (??)
  * Finding RDF-based vocabularies - add a benchmark for LOV
  * Persistent identifiers?

__Kai__: Data Provenance

- Understands what provenance information is: information about how the data at hand was created (who, where, when, how).
- Understands the difference between provenance information represented in RDF in contrast to provenance information about RDF data.
- Understands the concept of a provenance chain: data is created from other data which has its own provenance.
- Understands that W3C PROV is able to represent provenance chains of the provenance of arbitrary resources.
- Understands that simple metadata like Dublin Core contains provenance information as well.
- Understands that providing information about data requires identification of data: named graphs or other means.
- Understands that VoID vocabulary can be used to describe RDF datasets.
 
W3C PROV and particularly VoID could be seen as own subtopics.

======================================================================
Long-term maintenance via Github pull requests (Tom)

__Stuart__: We eliminated Linked Data Applications.  But the Euclid 
project powerpoints suggest to me that we should not remove it.
Sean indexed things to "topics" whether there were "competencies" or 
not.  I went through and deleted the "topic" - I have all these - 
could put them back.  Webinar 5 in the Euclid Project was about 
applications.  Have notes.

Propose to put them back, but not the right person to compose 
competencies.

__ACTION__: Tom to re-add Linked Data applications and send diff to 
Stuart.

======================================================================
ACTIONS

* Tom
  * propose approach using Github for long-term community-driven maintenance of
    CI, based on Schema.org
  * remind Tom Johnson to review Ruby competencies
  * competencies about topic maps (Sam Oh)
    - Tom has proposed two competencies to Sam

* Debbie
  * contact Ryan about competencies for "temporarily indexed data" (and
    looking at the CI in general), with a link to PERIODO work.
    - they are working on it
  * SPARQL endpoints and triple stores (will ask on their listserv)
    - continues

* Stuart:
  * write Diane re: cleaning data
    - Stuart has written
  * go back to Euclid project re: LD Application Architecture
    - we eliminated the topic Linked Data (see above)
  * SPARQL endpoints and triple stores (will ask Joseph Chapman)
    - continues
  * ping Seth and Ruben (or Stuart flesh out from their webinars)
    - I pinged them

* Magnus
  * http://www.slideshare.net/EUCLIDproject/building-linked-data-applications-27768679
    - Magnus will propose competencies

* Kai
  * write provenance competency about differentiating simple approach and
    representing the chain
    - see proposal above - will add versioning

* Sean:
  * contact Barry Norton and Elena Simperl, formerly of the EUCLID Project and
    currently teaching a Future Learn MOOC, "Introduction to Linked Data and
    the Semantic Web".

