LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 10 (Fri 2016-04-22)

* Agenda:   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-04-22.cieb-agenda.md
* Previous: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-04-08.cieb-notes.md
* Expected: Tom, Sean, Stuart, Debbie, Magnus, Kai.
* Time:     0600 SFO / 0900 NYC / 1500 BER
* WebEx:    https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=MDRM9U38JJQ2XMH0UECH7H48IH-JV0D
  * Meeting number: 197 477 295
  * Audio Connection +1-415-655-0001 US TOLL
  * Access code: 190 952 037
  * Support: https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/support
  * Meeting password: This meeting does not require a password.

======================================================================
CIEB calls - Fridays at the usual time (see above)

* http://doodle.com/poll/np47qhu7tc6k46q6

  * May 13 
  * June 3    - regrets: Debbie
  * June 24   - regrets: Debbie

* September/October - one or two final calls

======================================================================
Using Github for long-term community-driven maintenance of CI (Tom and Stuart)

======================================================================
Review of Competency Index

* 2016-01-20. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i1k5kZLWncb3dJozb61SQiRS7hljUAox-gEXs4gHs7o
  This Google doc has been "frozen".  
   
* Next version will depend on decisions outlined below.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Web technology

  Knows the origins of the World Wide Web (1989) as a non-linear
  interactive system, or hypermedia, built on the Internet.

  Understands that Linked Data (2006) extended the notion of a web of 
  documents (the Web) to a notion of a web of finer-grained data (the
  Linked Data cloud).

  Knows HyperText Markup Language, or HTML (1991+), as a language for
  "marking up" the content and multimedia components of Web pages.

  Knows HTML5 (2014) as a version of HTML extended with support for 
  complex web and mobile applications.

  Knows Hypertext Transfer Protocol, or HTTP (1991+), as the basic
  technology for resolving hyperlinks and transferring data on the World
  Wide Web.

  Knows Representational State Transfer, or REST (2000) as a software
  architectural style whereby browsers can exchange data with web
  servers, typically on the basis of well-known HTTP actions.

  Knows that Uniform Resource Identifiers, or URIs (1994), include
  Uniform Resource Locators (URLs, which locate web pages) as well as
  location-independent identifiers for physical, conceptual, or web
  resources.

__ACTION 2016-04-08__: Under "Web technology", Debbie to propose competencies
about basic Web technology -- 1) HTML, 2) HTTP, 3) REST, 4) URI schemes -- then
write a brief definition for the topic "Web technology" in order to make clear
to users that this is about the principles and mechanics of the Web that
underlie Linked Data.

See discussion at 
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1604&L=dc-review&P=18754

----------------------------------------------------------------------
RDF Data Model

Tom proposes changing:

  Understands the concept of the named graph

to

  Understands a named graph as one of the collection of graphs comprising
  an RDF dataset, with a graph name unique in the context of that dataset

Tom proposes changing

  Understands how an RDF class (naming a set of things in the world)
  fundamentally differs from an object-oriented programming "class", or "data
  type", which is used to create objects that bundle "state" (attributes with
  data values) and "behavior" (functions that operate on state).

to read

  Understands how an RDF class (named set of things) fundamentally differs
  from an object-oriented programming class, which defines a type of object
  bundling "state" (attributes with data values) and "behavior" (functions that
  operate on state).

and to add

  Understands how a namespace, informally used in the RDF context for a
  namespace URI or RDF vocabulary, fundamentally differs from the namespace 
  of data attributes and functions (methods) defined for an object-oriented
  class.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Federated query processing

__ACTION 2016-04-08__: Kai and Magnus (not on the call) to comment on
whether competencies related to federated query processing are needed
under "Querying RDF".

Sean had proposed:

  Understands Linked Data query processing is a special case of federated query
  processing with special challenges caused by the highly distributed structure
  and evolving nature of Linked Data

Background: extracted from a particular source.  Tom feels they are too
fine-grained.  Stuart pointed out that the CI must function, in part, as a
cataloging tool.  Say you find a relevant resource: Is there an appropriate
place to put it?

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Programming RDF data

Tom proposes to rename the (still-empty) topic:

  Programming RDF data

to:

  Processing RDF data programatically   
  - or - 
  Processing RDF data using programming languages

Tom proposes the following competencies and benchmarks:

  Understands how components of the RDF data model (datasets, graphs,
  statements, and various types of node) are expressed in the RDF library of a
  given programming language by constructs such as object-oriented classes.
    
    Uses an RDF programming library to serialize RDF data in available
    syntaxes.

    Uses RDF-specific programming methods to iterate over components of
    RDF data.

    Uses RDF-library-specific convenience representations for common RDF
    vocabularies such as RDF, Dublin Core, and SKOS.

    Programatically associates namespaces to prefixes for use in serializing
    RDF or when parsing SPARQL queries.

    Uses RDF programming libraries to extract RDF data from CSV files, 
    databases, or web pages.

    Uses RDF programming libraries to persistently stores triples in memory, on
    disk, or to interact with triple stores.

    Programatically infers triples using custom functions or methods.

  Understands how the pattern matching of SPARQL queries can be
  expressed using functionally equivalent constructs in RDF programming
  libraries.

    Uses RDF-specific programming methods to query RDF data and save the 
    results for further processing.

    Uses utilities and convenience functions the provide shortcuts for
    frequently used patterns, such as matching the multiple label properties
    used in real data.

    Uses RDF libraries to process various types of SPARQL query result.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Designing RDF-based vocabularies

  Knows Web Ontology Language, or OWL (2004), as a RDF vocabulary of properties
  and classes that extend support for expressive data modeling and automated
  inferencing (reasoning)

  Knows that the word "ontology" is ambiguous, referring to any RDF vocabulary,
  but more typically a set of OWL classes and properties designed to support
  inferencing in a specific domain.

  Knows Simple Knowledge Organization System, or SKOS (2009), an RDF vocabulary
  for expressing concepts that are labeled in natural languages, organized into
  informal hierarchies, and aggregated into concept schemes.

  Knows SKOS eXtension for Labels, or SKOS-XL (2009), a small set of additional
  properties for describing and linking lexical labels as instances of the class
  Label.

  Understands that in a formal sense, a SKOS concept is not an RDF class but an
  instance and, as such, is not formally associated with a set of instances
  ("class extension").

  Understands that SKOS can express a flexibly associative structure of concepts
  without enabling the more rigid and automatic inferences typically specified in
  a class-based OWL ontology.

  Understands that in contrast to OWL sub-class chains, hierarchies of SKOS
  concepts are designed not to form transitive chains automatically because
  humans do not typically think so precisely.

__ACTION 2016-04-08__: Tom to push Sean's OWL competencies (under "RDF
Vocabularies" ) in addition to his own competencies for SKOS.

See comparison of Tom and Sean proposals at 
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1604&L=dc-review&P=26527

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Reasoning over RDF data

  Knows that Web Ontology Language (OWL) is available in multiple "flavors"
  that are variously optimized for expressivity, performant reasoning, or for
  applications involving databases or business rules.

  Understands that OWL Full supports all available constructs and is most
  appropriately used when reasoning performance is not a concern.

See comparison of Tom and Sean proposals at 
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1604&L=dc-review&P=26527

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Mapping RDF vocabularies

  Understands that the properties of hierarchical subsumption within an RDF
  vocabulary -- rdfs:subPropertyOf and rdfs:subClassOf -- can also be used to
  express mappings between vocabularies.

  Understands that owl:equivalentProperty and owl:equivalentClass may be used
  when equivalencies between properties or between classes are exact.

  Understands that best practice for mapping between RDF and non-RDF (or
  quasi-RDF) vocabularies has yet to consolidate, though SKOS mapping
  properties offer a suitably flexible default.

See comparison of Tom and Sean proposals at
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1604&L=dc-review&P=26527

__ACTION 2016-04-08__: Tom to propose competencies under "Mapping RDF
vocabularies" re: SKOS mapping properties, other predicates
(owl:equivalentXXX), and the controversial owl:sameAs.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
RDFa

__ACTION 2016-04-08__: Tom to move Sean's point about RDFa under "RDF
serialization" and push to dc-review or Github issue tracker.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Non-RDF Linked Data

__ACTION 2016-04-08__: As a replacement for the heading "Non-RDF Linked Data",
Tom to propose competencies about the RDF-compatible model for Schema.org, and
its serialization syntax, microdata.  Otherwise, a candidate for deletion?

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Managing identifiers

  Understands that to be "persistent", a URI must have a stable,
  well-documented meaning and be plausibly intended to identify a given
  resource in perpetuity

  Understands trade-offs between "opaque" URIs and URIs using version numbers,
  server names, dates, application-specific file extensions, query strings or
  other obsoletable context

  Recognizes the desirability of a published namespace policy describing
  an institution's commitment to the persistence and semantic stability of 
  important URIs

__ACTION 2016-04-08__: Tom to push Sean's points re: "Managing URIs"
together with a competency about "namespace policies".

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Publishing RDF vocabularies

  Understands that to be "dereferencable", a URI should be usable to 
  retrieve a representation of the resource it identifies

    Ensures that when dereferenced by a Web browser, a URI returns a 
    representation of the resource in human-readable HTML

    Ensures that when dereferenced by an RDF application, a URI returns
    representation of the resource in the requested RDF serialization syntax

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Versioning RDF vocabularies

In addition to the existing:

  Knows technical options for the form, content, and granularity of versions

Add
  
  Understands the trade-offs between publishing RDF vocabularies in periodic,
  numbered releases versus more constant and incremental approaches

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Creating RDF data

Replace the placeholder

  Generates RDF data from non-RDF sources

which is more a benchmark than a competency, with:

  Knows methods for generating RDF data from tabular data in formats 
  such as Comma-Separated Values (CSV)

  Knows methods such as Direct Mapping of Relational Data to RDF (2012) for
  transforming data from the relational model (keys, values, rows, columns,
  tables) into RDF graphs.

Sean's more detailed proposal at:
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1604&L=dc-review&P=19646

======================================================================
ACTIONS

* Tom
  * respond to Mike Lauruhn: We do not think that it is appropriate to classify
    competencies by proficiency level (Beginner, etc).  However, we _do_ think it
    is appropriate to classify particular resources by level.
  * self: write Ruby RDF.rb competencies, then ask Tom Johnson for review
  * self: write competencies related to SKOS
  * John Kunze: one competency on management of ARKs
  * Adam Rabinowitz re: period identifiers for temporally indexed data, with a
    link to PERIODO work.

* Stuart:
  * write Diane re: cleaning data
  * write Seth and Ruben
  * check whether http://explore.dublincore.net/comp-index/ will continue to be maintained

* Kai
  * provenance competency about differentiating simple approach and representing the chain.

* Sean:
  * identify individuals who worked on EuCLID

