LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - 2016-01-15 telecon notes

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-01-15.cieb-notes.md
* Attended: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Magnus, Debbie

======================================================================
__SUMMARY__

* Planning two (or hopefully three) telecons between today (January 15) 
  and early March.

* Discussed:
   * Granularity of competencies.
   * SPARQL competencies, especially CRUD operations.

* Confirmed role of key editor (Tom) in deciding points of detail without 
  trying to discuss everything in the Editorial Board because telecons are
  short given everything we need to discuss, and because bandwidth on the 
  mailing list is limited.

__ACTION__: Tom will prepare for discussion on email and in next call:
* synthesize draft SPARQL CRUD competencies discussed today (and send email)
* wordsmith a handful of existing SPARQL competencies (and send email)
* add Stuart/Tom competencies on RDF Basics into CompIndex (and send email)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
__TOPIC__: Calls in Jan/Feb/March - http://doodle.com/poll/xk3gpng8pyrcscns 

* 2016-01-29 Fri Tom, Sean, Magnus, Kai. Debbie, Stuart?
* 2016-02-19 Fri Tom, Sean, Magnus, Kai. Debbie, Stuart?
* 2016-03-04 Fri Tom, Sean, Magnus. Debbie, Stuart?  - Regrets: Kai.

__Tom__: We haven't met in a while, quite a bit to do.  Need to start shifting
gears. Reordering of priorities. Discussed with Stuart and Kai.  Propose
meeting on Jan 29 and 19 Feb and March 4.

__Kai__: I am available more dates if we take the earlier slot, like today.

__Debbie__: Yeah, better for me too.

__Stuart__: Earlier slot works for me.

__Kai__: I propose we use Webex next time.

__DECISION__: All calls at 1500 CET (not 1600 as before)!  Future calls will 
not take place on Skype, given the problems we had today, but on the 
DCMI/ASIS&T WebEx platform.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
__TOPIC__: Scope, granularity, change policies, process

__Tom__: Today, scheduled to "finalize competencies related to SPARQL". Intended as
a formality.  When I look at competencies now, I see some small issues. One is
that sometimes competencies should be benchmarks. One or two I wanted to go in
and edit, did so on a branch of the github repo. Haven't received any more
comments on SPARQL comps, so don't want to spend more time on call today.

__Stuart__: One point on edits.  Thought we had finalized SPARQL. Went ahead and
mapped to SPARQL competencies, publicly available.  As long as we are shuffling
nodes around -- okay so far because URIs remain the same.  A change policy has
to kick in.  When we say published, things begin to happen immediately.

__Tom__: Bigger point. We should be looking at how these are actually mapping to
resources.  Would be surprised if some headings mapped at all.  Methodology
should be focusing more on feedback from assigning these headings to resource
descriptions.

__Stuart__: Danger is more of gap in resources, not in bad headings.

__Tom__: Think competencies for SPARQL are a bit too fine-grained.  Don't need to
cover all the features of a language in competencies.  Resources are at a
higher level of granularity.  We need to back away from going into too much
detail. Move towards a process which is a little bit more aware of how the
competencies are being used in description.

__Sean__: Took a subset of 100 out of 450 descriptions, mapped to competencies, so
that public would have something to look at.  Waiting for Index to be more
complete.

__Stuart__: There were no approved competencies under "fundamentals".  "Why don't
we hold off so we don't have to keep partially complete records." "When this
area is complete - go back and look at those records". But Sean is doing basic
cataloging of resources -- just not mapping.  Topical yes, but not yet
competencies mapped.  So the pool of 400 descriptions [overall - including the
subset of 100 that have been tagged] is growing.

__Sean__: Slowly, but growing.  Some resources had, say, 8 competencies.  Question
of granularity is tough.

__Stuart__: Depends on resource.  Some resources only address part of the
competency.

__Sean__: Quality of resources not up to what I expected.  Almost all resources
only partially usable.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
__TOPIC__: SPARQL CRUD competencies
* See: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-11-20.SPARQL_CRUD_assignments.md

__Tom__: As for CRUD resources. Let's go around the circle and talk through our
proposals.  I'll start.  My strong preference is to keep it simple.  Not go into too
much detail.

__Stuart__: Did not get it done; do not feel competent with this area.

__Debbie__: Can't say I was incredibly confident either, but took a stab.
Hopefully some were helpful.  Saw some things that mapped clearly to CRUD
competencies. Would not be offended if they were edited.

__Kai__: Indexed with competencies we have right now. General SPARQL 101 slides.
Found we do not have INSERT, DELETE operations.  Suggest we include JSON-LD as
a benchmark.  Serialization format only right now but deserves more
representation.

__Debbie__: I agree. Anything from schema.org is important to mention I would
think.

[Magnus, Debbie, Stuart report serious Skype problems -- either hear nothing,
or lots of static. Tom hangs up and Magnus initiates the call.]

__Kai__: As for the second resource I reviewed: a walk-through, not very good blog
post.  Graph store protocol should be http protocol.

__Kai__: POST GET DELETE with graph store.  Changing -- with SPARQL 1.1 directly.
Is a different set of competencies.

__Debbie__: HTTP distinction is good; I tried to bring that up too.

__Kai__: Would also switch order.  SPARQL first, then HTTP.

__Tom__: Proper name is SPARQL HTTP Graph Store Protocol?

__Magnus__: https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-http-rdf-update/ - "SPARQL 1.1 Graph Store HTTP Protocol"

__Kai__: Very important point to distinguish the two ways to update.  Shouldn't be
mixed.

__Tom__: Would like to slightly reword for clarity -- for someone who is reading
with little background.

__Kai__: Add something like [reference to] REST.

__Tom__: Capture without using jargon.

__Kai__: Would like to see more about history of SPARQL and standardization
process. How it evolved.  May be helpful to add context?

__Stuart__: Up in the Fundamentals section?

__Magnus__: As for my competencies - similar to Kai.  Need to separate SPARQL part
and RESTful API part.  The second resource is a research paper.  What sort of
competencies could be gained from reading this?

__Tom__: Discussed with Sean.  Research papers about experimental extensions.  They
cross a line.  Research generally should be considered beyond focus.

__Stuart__: Resource type for scholarly papers?  But a bottomless pit.  Some
scholarly works have an intention to inform. Where to draw the line?  Magnus
did what he should. Don't map the resource.

__Kai__: I disagree a little.  There is a section for Linked Data Applications.
Propose another competency like "securing applications".

__Magnus__: Would never use this kind of resource.  "Data security" or "Access
security".

