LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 11 (Fri 2016-05-13) - notes

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-05-13.cieb-notes.md
* Previous: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-04-08.cieb-notes.md
* Attended: Tom, Stuart, Debbie, Magnus.  Kai, Sean.

======================================================================
CIEB calls - Fridays at the usual time (15:00 Berlin time)

* http://doodle.com/poll/np47qhu7tc6k46q6

  * June 3
  * June 24   - regrets: Debbie

* September/October - one or two final calls

======================================================================
Gaps and corrections

* http://tinyurl.com/ld4pe-competencies-may13
  
__Stuart__: Entered changes in ASN.  Have to make some SKOS 
changes.  Then I tell Joseph it is ready and this triggers the 
update with Abbie.  Plan is to make any changes we agree here
over the weekend, then update on Monday.

__Tom__: Want to delete "Understands the use of RDF Schema..." 
because it is redundant with "RDF Vocabularies" -> "Designing 
RDF vocabularies".

__DECISION__: Move "Uses portals and registries to find..." - 
elevate to competency under "Finding RDF-based vocabularies".
Add a benchmark for LOV.

__Stuart__: Prefer that we leave "Versioning RDF Data" for now.  Also
"Assessing RDF data quality" (even if it is empty when we go to Version 1).
Hope that by end-June, we can say we have Version 1.

__Stuart__: Under "Creating and transforming RDF data" - something like 
Understands mechanisms of persistent identifers.

__Tom__: Understands how redirect services work.
Understands trade-offs - single point of failure.

__DECISION__: Something needed under "creating and transforming RDF data"
about the choices between approaches to persistent identifiers.

======================================================================
GAP list

* Provenance (Kai)
* RDF data analytics?
* Finding RDF-based vocabularies - add a benchmark for LOV
* Creating and transforming RDF data - choices btw approaches to persistent identifiers
* Storing RDF data

  * SPARQL endpoints
  * Triple stores

* Non-RDF linked data (note the lowercase)

  * Topic Maps - Sam Oh?
  * Microdata - syntactically different from RDF
  * Graph databases, such as Neo4j.


======================================================================
ACTIONS

* Tom
  * generate new Google Doc
  * send Google Doc address to Mike Lauruhn. Add: We do not think that it is
    appropriate to classify competencies by proficiency level (Beginner, etc).
    However, we _do_ think it is appropriate to classify particular resources
    by level.
  * prepare diff that Stuart can use to edit new version of CI
  * propose approach using Github for long-term community-driven maintenance of
    CI, based on Schema.org
  * self: remind Tom Johnson to review Ruby competencies
  * write competencies about persistent identifers - run by John Kunze
  * competencies on topic maps (Sam)?

* Debbie
  * contact Ryan about competencies for "temporarily indexed data" (and
    looking at the CI in general), with a link to PERIODO work.
  * SPARQL endpoints and triple stores (will ask on their listserv)

* Stuart:
  * write Diane re: cleaning data
  * go back to Euclid project re: LD Application Architecture
  * SPARQL endpoints and triple stores (will ask Joseph Chapman)
  * ping Seth and Ruben (or Stuart flesh out from their webinars)
  * check whether http://explore.dublincore.net/comp-index/ will continue to be maintained

* Kai
  * write provenance competency about differentiating simple approach and
    representing the chain

* Sean:
  * contact Barry Norton and Elena Simperl, formerly of the EUCLID Project and
    currently teaching a Future Learn MOOC, "Introduction to Linked Data and
    the Semantic Web".

