LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 8 (Fri 2016-03-11) - notes

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-03-11.cieb-notes.md
* Previous: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-02-19.cieb-notes.md
* Attended: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Debbie. Regrets: Magnus.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
CIEB calls April thru June - Fridays at the usual time (see above)

* http://doodle.com/poll/np47qhu7tc6k46q6

    March 11
    April 1
    April 22 
    May 13 
    June 3 
    June 24    
    ...then one or two final calls in September/October

Debbie and Stuart will add their availability.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Public review of Competency Index

-- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i1k5kZLWncb3dJozb61SQiRS7hljUAox-gEXs4gHs7o

__Stuart__: Status: We need to finalize what is here for the next 
version.  Hoping we have no more than two major updates between 
here and June.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Gaps in the Competency Index - and what to do about them

Stuart will explain that ASN will not publish a competency index until it is 
considered "complete" (or complete enough).  Please study the current CI for 
a discussion of which parts _must_ be filled in for the index to be complete 
enough -- and which parts we might consider dropping for the final release.

See Competency Index (above) plus:
-- Sean's "1-to-5" ratings of how well specific topics are covered in the index
   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-03-11.resource_representation_jan2016.pdf

__Stuart__: Two issues:
* where do we not have competencies (at all)?
* where are there gaps in the resources?

As of 2016-03-The following topics in the CI have no competencies defined:

### Fundamentals of Linked Data
#### Web technology

Write competency along the lines:
* HTML (needed for viewing and for RDFa), HTTP, REST, URI schemes

#### Linked Data principles

Write competencies along the lines:
* Five Stars -- one competency for each star?

#### Linked Data architectures and services

__Stuart__: If we look at Sean's report reflects how many resources 
have been indexed to each topic.

__ACTION__: Sean to say what the (low - 2.0) number of resources tagged
with this topic are actually about.

#### Non-RDF Linked Data

__Stuart__: When we were discussing the scope of the grant, Marjie Hlava was
adamant that RDF was not the only way to do linked data.

__Debbie__: Microdata?

__Stuart__: Schema.org makes no claims about Linked Data.  Lots of literals.
There are lots of people who want to use it that way, but.

__ACTION__: Tom to ask Marjie to elaborate on what she meant - suggest 
some competencies.

### RDF vocabularies and application profiles
#### Mapping

Write competencies along the lines:
* SKOS mapping properties
* Development of mapping predicates
* owl:sameAs, as well as controversy surrounding its use

### Creating and transforming Linked Data
#### Managing identifiers (URI)

Write competencies along the lines:
* Namespace policies
* Redirect services such as purl.org, w3id.org

__Stuart__: When I look at the subject indexing... Sean has 
fifteen resources.

__ACTION__: Sean to say what these resources are about (and 
thus how he interpreted the topic).

__ACTION__: Tom to ask John Kunze to propose a competency 
related to management of ARKs.

#### Versioning RDF data

__Tom__: Tempted to remove.

__Stuart__: Shouldn't remove things just because we have no competencies.
Mechanisms for handling versioning and updating, like Github.

Write competencies along the lines:
* Periodic numbered releases versus more incremental approaches
  that continually evolve (Github)...?

#### RDF data provenance

__Tom__: Propose to drop.

__Kai__: Strong relationship between versioning and provenance,
but cannot easily formulate competencies.  Under RDF Vocabularies - 
who created it?  Approach taken: always "depends".  If you ask 
me for core competence - "differentiate simple approach and 
representing the chain".

__ACTION__: Kai to write competency about "differentiate simple approach and
representing the chain".

### Interacting with RDF data
#### Programming RDF data

__ACTION__: Tom to propose RDF.rb competencies to run by Tom Johnson

#### Assessing RDF data quality

__Stuart__: Things related to cleaning data.

__ACTION__: Stuart to write to Diane.

Adjourn - next call (DC-IAC) starting.

