From: Thomas Baker <tom@tombaker.org> <br>
To: LD4PE Competency Index review <dc-review@jiscmail.ac.uk> <br>
Cc: Joseph Chapman <joseph.chapman@gmail.com> <br>
Subject: LD4PE/CIEB - using the ASN editor to edit the Competency Index <br>

Dear all, Cc: Joseph,

I'll try to keep this initial message short and elaborate on specific 
issues in subsequent postings.

We recently had a call with Joseph Chapman [1], who showed us how we could
directly edit the native representation of the Competency Index using the RDF
editor of the Achievement Standards Network ("ASN Editor"), which runs in the
browser [2].

The ASN Editor:

* reads and writes to RDF/JSON, an informally standardized precursor to the 
  serialization format to JSON-LD [3] (note that this W3C Working 
  Group Note says: "Use of JSON-LD is recommended.")  See a copy of the 
  RDF/JSON representation at [4] of the "official" published RDF/JSON [7].  
  This RDF/JSON format is the basis for all functions on the WordPress site, 
  such as creation of a WP taxonomy.

* loads the Competency Index in the correct order; 

* renders a hierarchical view of the CI that can be clicked on to add new 
  competencies, edit existing competencies, or move things around within
  the hierarchy; and 

* write things back to a file in the correct order;

* is smart about URIs: if the entities described in the RDF/JSON already 
  have URIs, it keeps those; otherwise it assigns new (ASN) URIs.

Our vision had been:

* that the Editorial use the ASN Editor to make changes to the CI in our 
  Github repo;

* that members of the public be invited to fork the repo, make changes 
  in their copy, and propose their changes in the form of pull requests;

* that in addition to the raw RDF/JSON sources and the web-based view of 
  the hierarchy, we supply, and continually update, a PDF of the 
  competency index for printing;

* that as an easier alternative to the Github/ASN-Editor route, members
  of the public be invited to submit feedback on the basis of the PDF
  printout or web-based view and post their comments or proposals using
  the Github issue tracker.

I currently see several issues with this approach:

* The native representation format for CI (RDF/JSON) does not appear
  to be well supported by software libraries.  As Joseph points out, 
  it can be converted into Turtle using online tools (with limitations 
  discussed below), but the command-line tool 'rapper' dropped support 
  for RDF/JSON between versions 2.0.14 and 2.0.15 -- not a good sign.  
  This makes the task of writing a script to generate a print version 
  of the CI in PDF more daunting than I had assumed.

* The sequential order of clusters, topics, competencies, and benchmarks, 
  which is of course crucial for the CI, is not determined by their order 
  in the RDF/JSON file.  Their order in the RDF/JSON file is arbitrary, 
  and the order of the CI is constituted by (ordered) references to parent 
  and child nodes that must be resolved to reconstitute that order.  This 
  also complicates the task of writing a script to generate a readable 
  and printable version of the CI.

* The RDF model sees clusters, topics, competencies, and benchmarks
  (CTCB) all as members of Statement, an ASN class.  Their status as
  CTCB is determined by their hierarchical relations to other entities
  and by a "statement label" attached to each CTCB (e.g., the string
  "Competency").  It is done this way for flexibility, because ASN
  encompasses a very wide range of models (one model's "benchmark" is
  another model's "indicator"), but it also complicates the task of 
  writing a script.

* Diffs between two versions of the CI in RDF/JSON would be hard to read 
  because of their non-sequential order (as described above). This would 
  make it difficult to interpret a pull request.

* The ASN Editor gives the topics and competencies of the CI URIs in the 
  ASN namespace.  This means that according to the principle of "following 
  your nose", the official published version of the CI is the one to 
  which its URIs resolve on the ASN website.  For example, the competency 
  that reads "Understands that a 'real-world' thing..." is identified by
  http://asn.desire2learn.com/resources/S2742438 , which resolves to 
  a single competency description on the ASN website.  When the CI is 
  edited in the ASN Editor, temporary UUIDs are assigned.

* Assuming changes were made to a copy of the RDF/JSON data in a DCMI Github 
  repo, we would need to define some sort of workflow, preferably 
  automatic in response to commits on the master branch, by which the
  "published" CI on the ASN website [5] could be refreshed along with any other
  representations of the CI, such as a printable PDF or the clickable web-based
  hierarchical view currently on the WordPress site [6].

In subsequent messages, I will lay out the practical options I see for
next steps.

Tom

[1] https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2017-05-16.cieb-notes.md <br>
[2] http://rdf.tools => click on "ASN" => "load ASN file" <br>
[3] https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-json/ <br>
[4] https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/CompIndex_json/D2695955.json <br>
[5] http://asn.desire2learn.com/resources/D2695955 <br>
[6] http://explore.dublincore.net/explore-learning-resources-by-competency/ <br>
[7] http://s3.amazonaws.com/asnstaticd2l/data/rdf/D2695955.json <br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------- <br>
Date: Tue, 20 Jun 2017 10:36:06 +0200 <br>
From: Thomas Baker <tom@tombaker.org> <br>
To: LD4PE Competency Index review <dc-review@jiscmail.ac.uk> <br>
Cc: Joseph Chapman <joseph.chapman@gmail.com> <br>
Subject: Re: LD4PE/CIEB - using the ASN editor to edit the Competency Index

Dear all,

After closer examination, some corrections to what I wrote earlier:

> * The sequential order of clusters, topics, competencies, and benchmarks, 
>   which is of course crucial for the CI, is not determined by their order 
>   in the RDF/JSON file.  Their order in the RDF/JSON file is arbitrary, 
>   and the order of the CI is constituted by (ordered) references to parent 
>   and child nodes that must be resolved to reconstitute that order.  This 
>   also complicates the task of writing a script to generate a readable 
>   and printable version of the CI.

I was wrong about this.  The RDF/JSON representation _DOES_ in fact
reflect the exact sequence of CTCBs.  I concluded otherwise because I
found them completely out of order in the Turtle file created by rapper
2.0.14.

On Mon, Jun 19, 2017 at 06:26:44PM +0200, Tom Baker wrote:
> I currently see several issues with this approach:
> 
> * The native representation format for CI (RDF/JSON) does not appear
>   to be well supported by software libraries.  As Joseph points out, 
>   it can be converted into Turtle using online tools (with limitations 
>   discussed below), but the command-line tool 'rapper' dropped support 
>   for RDF/JSON between versions 2.0.14 and 2.0.15 -- not a good sign.  
>   This makes the task of writing a script to generate a print version 
>   of the CI in PDF more daunting than I had assumed.

I'm now thinking that support for the RDF/JSON syntax, per se, may not
be necessary as long as we can parse out a few key values from the
description of a CTCB -- the ones needed for the text/PDF/html version.
Specifically, given:

    asn:S2696031
        asncore:authorityStatus authstatus:Original ;
        asncore:indexingStatus ndxstatus:No ;
        asncore:statementLabel "Competency"@en-US ;
        dct:description "Knows Tim Berners-Lee's principles of..." ;
        dct:educationLevel edlevel:AdultEducation ;
        dct:isPartOf asn:D2695955 ;
        dct:language iso639-2:eng ;
        dct:subject topic:careerEducation, topic:technology ;
        gemq:isChildOf asn:S2696027 ;
        a asncore:Statement .

    asn:S2696027
        asncore:authorityStatus authstatus:Original ;
        asncore:indexingStatus ndxstatus:No ;
        asncore:statementLabel "Topic"@en-US ;
        dct:description "Linked Data principles"@en-US ;
        dct:educationLevel edlevel:AdultEducation, edlevel:ProfessionalEducation-Development, edlevel:VocationalTraining ;
        dct:isPartOf asn:D2695955 ;
        dct:language iso639-2:eng ;
        dct:subject topic:careerEducation, topic:technology ;
        gemq:hasChild asn:S2696031, asn:S2742441 ;
        gemq:isChildOf asn:S2695997 ;
        a asncore:Statement .

We only really need, for a text version:

    asn:S2696031
        asncore:statementLabel "Competency"@en-US
        dct:description "Knows Tim Berners-Lee's principles of..." ;
        gemq:isChildOf asn:S2696027

    asn:S2696027
        asncore:statementLabel "Topic"@en-US ;
        dct:description "Linked Data principles"@en-US ;
        gemq:hasChild asn:S2696031, asn:S2742441 ;
        gemq:isChildOf asn:S2695997 ;

Ignoring statements using the inverse property gemq:isChildOf leaves
just three properties of interest:

        asncore:statementLabel "Competency"@en-US
        dct:description "Knows Tim Berners-Lee's principles of..." ;
        gemq:hasChild asn:S2696031, asn:S2742441 ;

But asncore:statementLabel also serves no purpose if the status of 
a statement as a cluster, topic, competency, or benchmark is actually 
determined by the position of the statement in a chain of gemq:hasChild 
statements.

So the task of writing a script to generate a text representation of 
the Competency Index is looking easier.

