---
title: IRC notes
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DC-2011_Vocabulary_Special_Session/IRC_notes.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 13 October 2011, at 17:10.  
This page has been accessed 32,570 times.

## IRC notes 
<pre>Conversation with #dcmi at 9/21/2011 8:49:54 AM on charper@chat.freenode.net (irc)
(8:50:53 AM) You're not channel operator
(8:51:43 AM) realworldobject [~realworld@99-186-54-21.lightspeed.clmboh.sbcglobal.net] entered the room.
(8:58:55 AM) charper: test
(9:02:19 AM) VCHARLES [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(9:03:45 AM) charper: @Jeff - Have a look for sasutton on skype. We may not be able to get you in for the opening, though.
(9:05:04 AM) realworldobject: Thanks, I sent a contact request. If it doesn't work out, that's fine.
(9:06:14 AM) charper: Actually, look for me instead (charper42)
(9:06:29 AM) tbaker [~chatzilla@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(9:06:38 AM) tbaker: Starting in two minutes...
(9:07:02 AM) realworldobject: @Corey - I think I added you as a contact yesterday
(9:08:43 AM) tbaker: Corey: we set this up as an unconference
(9:08:51 AM) tbaker: ...issues related to vocabulary alignment/use
(9:09:02 AM) tbaker: ...will outline today's schedule
(9:09:38 AM) tbaker: Curate Camp, LOD-LAM - participatory
(9:09:50 AM) VCHARLES: audience is doing the program today
(9:10:34 AM) VCHARLES: Session will be organized in breakout sessions
(9:10:49 AM) VCHARLES: + lightening talks
(9:13:47 AM) tbaker: Corey: Goals for today
(9:14:02 AM) tbaker: ...establish a community around Vocabulary Management
(9:14:12 AM) tbaker: ...identify gaps, needs, pain points for managers and users
(9:14:28 AM) tbaker: ...create venue for discussion of tools, technologies, best practices.
(9:14:46 AM) tbaker: ...to start process of agenda-setting: a poll
(9:14:56 AM) HansOverbeek [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(9:15:07 AM) tbaker: ...almost half of respondents: vocabulary managers
(9:15:23 AM) tbaker: ...14 lightning presentations
(9:15:48 AM) VCHARLES: most of the vocabularies managed are open
(9:15:57 AM) tbaker: ...most voc managers manage "open" vocabs.
(9:16:25 AM) VCHARLES: Lightening talks morning: highlight issues
(9:16:45 AM) VCHARLES: afternoon: solutions and answers to the problems
(9:17:55 AM) tbaker: Corey: (showing graph of poll results - shows that alignments are single biggest topic)
(9:18:17 AM) tbaker: ...we will consolidate these topics for the breakouts
(9:19:11 AM) HansOverbeek left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(9:19:24 AM) charper: Agenda outline:
(9:19:27 AM) charper: •9-10:30: opening session (30 min), 6-8 lightning talks (30 min), selection of breakout session topics (30 min).
(9:19:27 AM) charper: •11-12:30: 1st set breakout sessions
(9:19:27 AM) charper: •13:30-14: Additional lightning talks
(9:19:27 AM) charper: •14-15: 2nd set of breakout sessions
(9:19:27 AM) charper: •15:30-17: Closing discussion
(9:19:27 AM) charper:
(9:19:27 AM) charper:
(9:19:53 AM) realworldobject: works fine!
(9:22:15 AM) VCHARLES: Diane underlines the fact that vocabulary is a new theme in DCMI
(9:22:42 AM) VCHARLES: Vocabualries are part of the new DCMI mission !
(9:23:06 AM) tbaker: ...i.e., not just DCMI vocabularies. Rather, "the vocabulary world"
(9:23:23 AM) tbaker: ...support interoperability among languages of description.
(9:24:10 AM) tbaker: ...want to figure out where DCMI fits in.
(9:24:16 AM) VCHARLES: Interoperability is sometimes going against complexity
(9:25:02 AM) tbaker: ...End of day: summary and next actions.
(9:25:38 AM) tbaker: [Corey back at podium]
(9:25:40 AM) VCHARLES: Corey back on stage to present the topics of the day
(9:26:31 AM) tbaker: Kevin Ford coming up for lighntning talk.
(9:27:38 AM) VCHARLES: ...Library of congress vocabulary and authority, linked data service presented
(9:28:26 AM) VCHARLES: .... check id.loc.gov/auhorities
(9:28:47 AM) ChiaraL [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(9:29:00 AM) tbaker: Kevin: next PREMIS vocabs, MARC Organizations, MARC Source lists
(9:29:26 AM) tbaker: ...new functionality: faceted search, search ordering
(9:29:26 AM) VCHARLES: ... new datasets added : premis vocab, marc organisations, other MARC source list
(9:29:38 AM) tbaker: ...we take user requests! System is meant to be used!
(9:30:15 AM) VCHARLES: ... problem &amp; challenges: no clear idea how data are used in linked data
(9:30:27 AM) tbaker: ...we're not sure how people are using _for_ _Linked_ _Data_
(9:30:31 AM) tbaker: ...helps us design
(9:30:58 AM) tbaker: ...is LCSH - only 407,000 terms - could be more...
(9:31:01 AM) VCHARLES: .... current datasets sufficent ? which kind of datasets needed
(9:31:16 AM) tbaker: ...feature requests come in in ad-hoc manner
(9:31:38 AM) charper: use patterns / use cases will be a good breakout session topic
(9:31:42 AM) VCHARLES: .... need to define the kind of services, features we want to offer
(9:31:45 AM) tbaker: ...core set of services?
(9:31:54 AM) charper: As might provenance
(9:32:12 AM) VCHARLES: .... which level of granularity is needed ?
(9:33:30 AM) tbaker: Eamen O Tuama: biodiversity informatics - provide free and open access.
(9:33:38 AM) tbaker: ...enable sharing of data.
(9:33:40 AM) VCHARLES: New lightening talk: organisation about biodiversity
(9:33:46 AM) tbaker: ...portal to 3 million
(9:33:55 AM) VCHARLES: c...collect data, define standards, share data
(9:34:11 AM) tbaker: ...backbone: Darwin Core - where species have been observed
(9:34:22 AM) tbaker: ...most succesful biodiversity standards
(9:34:39 AM) VCHARLES: ...DC is a type for biodervisity data
(9:35:04 AM) tbaker: ...Darwin Core related to Dublin Core - 109 terms - email lists to discuss new terms
(9:35:07 AM) VCHARLES: .... services are provided through a website
(9:35:12 AM) tbaker: ...need to streamline this process
(9:35:44 AM) tbaker: ...move schema-based into ontologies
(9:35:45 AM) VCHARLES: ...work on persitent identifier for biodervisity objects
(9:36:14 AM) tbaker: ...how to manage most efficiently. In Google code. Want feedback today...
(9:36:39 AM) tbaker: ...set for people who want to extend Darwin Core, but not managed properly yet
(9:36:42 AM) VCHARLES: .... have set up a vacabulary service to create extensions
(9:38:00 AM) VCHARLES: Bernard Vattant on stage
(9:38:34 AM) VCHARLES: ...speaking about a linked open vocabualaries
(9:38:54 AM) VCHARLES: ..want to structure the cloud of vocabularies
(9:39:19 AM) tbaker: starting with FOAF, DC. So far, gathered about 140 vocabs linking "Vocabulary of a Friend" vocabulary
(9:39:33 AM) VCHARLES: ....140 vocabularies are linked together linked with vocabualry of a friend
(9:39:34 AM) tbaker: ...which vocabulary linked to which
(9:39:51 AM) tbaker: only six months since beginning of project
(9:40:01 AM) VCHARLES: ....small team, and are calling for participation
(9:40:18 AM) tbaker: ...actors range from major to small: "vocabularies alliance"?
(9:40:44 AM) VCHARLES: .... need of a vocabularies alliance. Can be formed today?
(9:40:53 AM) ChiaraL: people working together to provide vocabularies liked together
(9:41:03 AM) tbaker: ...Linked Open Vocabularies - preliminary taxonomy
(9:41:10 AM) VCHARLES: ...check labs.mondeca.com
(9:41:45 AM) VCHARLES: Antoine Isaacs on stage
(9:42:08 AM) VCHARLES: .... speaking for Europeana project
(9:43:46 AM) tbaker: Johannes Keizer: FAO, manage AGROVOC
(9:43:47 AM) VCHARLES: Switching to another presenter
(9:44:25 AM) VCHARLES: ....need data to populate AGROVOC
(9:45:06 AM) VCHARLES: ....DBpedia corpus is not specific enough for their data
(9:45:38 AM) VCHARLES: Back to Antoine
(9:46:29 AM) VCHARLES: ....highlight on the problems Europeana has with vocabularies
(9:46:44 AM) VCHARLES: ...over 19 million objects
(9:47:32 AM) VCHARLES: .... main issue is to homogenise access to objects, and avoid the loss of objects during the search
(9:47:56 AM) VCHARLES: .... Europeana is working on the topic as a network
(9:48:41 AM) VCHARLES: .....topic is splitted into issues related to aligne;ent, mapping enrichement ...
(9:48:50 AM) tbaker: Antoine: Mind map of all major issues with vocabs in Europeana
(9:49:00 AM) tbaker: ...alot of people working on this.
(9:49:07 AM) tbaker: ...crucial to have better coordiantion.
(9:49:36 AM) VCHARLES: ....this session is important for Europeana to collect ideas
(9:50:13 AM) VCHARLES: New presenter from IFLA
(9:50:18 AM) tbaker: Gordon Dunsire: IFLA maintains bibliographic standards
(9:50:34 AM) tbaker: ...UNIMARC, FRSAD, ISBD, MultiCat....
(9:51:06 AM) tbaker: ...coordination of resource discovery
(9:51:07 AM) VCHARLES: .... need to coordinate resource discoveries systems
(9:51:45 AM) tbaker: ...link not just to IFLA standards, but DCMI terms, RDA...
(9:51:54 AM) You are now known as 15SABGO6F
(9:51:59 AM) hughb_laptop [~hubris@181.243.69.111.dynamic.snap.net.nz] entered the room.
(9:52:00 AM) hughbris [~hughb@li224-235.members.linode.com] entered the room.
(9:52:12 AM) ***tbaker nods to hugh
(9:52:50 AM) VCHARLES: ....interested is getting the data ou of the silo
(9:53:11 AM) VCHARLES: Corey one stage
(9:53:13 AM) tbaker: Corey: wonders whether need to have a VoCamp as one breakout
(9:53:16 AM) loha [aloha@pruts.nl] entered the room.
(9:54:14 AM) VCHARLES: ..... identifiers with metadata record: how to track provenance?
(9:54:15 AM) tbaker: ...relation btw identifiers/resources. Primo (Ex Libris) to manage front-end to catalog.
(9:54:22 AM) tbaker: ...does FRBRization and de-dupe.
(9:54:56 AM) tbaker: ...identifiers all over, but how can I express relationships?
(9:55:00 AM) VCHARLES: ... how to express these relations in RDF
(9:55:42 AM) VCHARLES: ..... interesting for break out sessions
(9:56:34 AM) VCHARLES: New presenter on stage
(9:56:37 AM) tbaker: Nalini Umaschankar: from IMF in Washington. Maintain vocab of 30,000 concepts ("GDP", "Consumer Price Index".
(9:56:57 AM) tbaker: ...business: hierarchical or flat
(9:57:07 AM) tbaker: ...method for introducign new term
(9:57:15 AM) 15SABGO6F: @realworldobject: would you rather do you lightning talk now since you're here, or wait for the 1:30 slot?
(9:57:18 AM) tbaker: ...flows into apps in IMF
(9:57:36 AM) You are now known as chrpr
(9:57:45 AM) tbaker: ...looking for best practices?
(9:57:49 AM) VCHARLES: ....is looking for best practices in vocabularies management
(9:57:59 AM) ChiaraL: ....How do we manage those vocabularies?
(9:58:09 AM) tbaker: Corey is back.
(9:59:34 AM) tbaker: ...going back to topics from survey
(9:59:41 AM) ***hughb_laptop is now paying attn btw
(9:59:46 AM) VCHARLES: Corey is trying to extract topics for the next hours
(10:00:31 AM) VCHARLES: ....from the poll it seems we need to discuss mapping and alignement
(10:00:33 AM) tbaker: ...biggest topic: "Mapping and alignment", "Declaration of mapping, crosswalks"...
(10:00:45 AM) tbaker: ...90 min block after this break for breakouts
(10:01:30 AM) VCHARLES: ....second topic tools and infrastructure (services as well)
(10:01:53 AM) metadata_maven [~metadata_@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(10:02:22 AM) VCHARLES: ....next could be issues around multilinguality
(10:02:46 AM) tbaker: ...Provenance: identifying at graph or statement level where stuff is coming from
(10:02:48 AM) VCHARLES: .... one could be on he provennabce of the vocabularies
(10:03:14 AM) VCHARLES: ....quality control
(10:03:38 AM) VCHARLES: ....selection and use of vocabularies
(10:03:50 AM) VCHARLES: ....meta and meta-metadata
(10:04:05 AM) VCHARLES: .....publishing legacy metadata
(10:04:44 AM) tbaker: Policy framework.
(10:06:03 AM) VCHARLES: .Long term preservation, orphans vocab....
(10:08:22 AM) VCHARLES: Use patterns ( how to use them,...)
(10:08:32 AM) tbaker: Someone proposes "use patterns" - also how to figure out what they are.
(10:12:01 AM) VCHARLES: [Vote on the topics]
(10:17:29 AM) tbaker: Mapping and alignment: split into technical versus intellectual
(10:17:52 AM) tbaker: Gordon: who is interested in non-technical session: Alignment 101
(10:18:08 AM) tbaker: ...[about half raise their hands]
(10:19:16 AM) hughb_laptop: how many are attending?
(10:20:34 AM) VCHARLES: it's up for the attendees to move around between the different sessions
(10:24:35 AM) karencoyle [~chatzilla@adsl-99-190-99-230.dsl.pltn13.sbcglobal.net] entered the room.
(10:26:07 AM) Francesca [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(10:28:10 AM) tbaker left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 258 seconds).
(10:28:37 AM) Francesca_ [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(10:29:09 AM) Francesca_ left the room (quit: Client Quit).
(10:29:40 AM) ChiaraL: ... The aim is trying figuring out what the needs are
(10:30:12 AM) Francesca_ [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(10:32:12 AM) chrpr: Morning Breakouts:
(10:32:19 AM) chrpr: * Mapping and Alignment 101
(10:32:25 AM) metadata_maven left the room (quit: Quit: The computer fell asleep).
(10:32:30 AM) chrpr: * Tools / Registries / Infrastructure / Services
(10:32:39 AM) chrpr: * Provenanace / Meta-meta data
(10:32:48 AM) chrpr: * selection &amp; Discovery / Quality Control
(10:33:03 AM) chrpr: Longer term preservation / persistance &amp; Legacy metadata / vocabs
(10:33:56 AM) metadata_maven [~metadata_@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(10:34:33 AM) You are now known as chrpr_coffee
(10:35:52 AM) VCHARLES left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(10:38:27 AM) ChiaraL left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(10:38:49 AM) Francesca_ left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(10:39:11 AM) Francesca left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(10:57:27 AM) metadata_maven left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 260 seconds).
(11:02:14 AM) You are now known as chrpr
(11:03:42 AM) realworldobject left the room (quit: Remote host closed the connection).
(11:05:11 AM) realworldobject [~realworld@99-186-54-21.lightspeed.clmboh.sbcglobal.net] entered the room.
(11:11:38 AM) Vcharles [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(11:11:49 AM) ChiaraL [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(11:12:05 AM) Vcharles: Selection and discovery breakout session
(11:12:36 AM) ChiaraL: MAPPING &amp; ALIGN 101
(11:13:13 AM) ChiaraL: ...Map different from align
(11:13:14 AM) Vcharles: ....for vocabularies: is this voc has been used?, who is maintaining it ?
(11:13:49 AM) ChiaraL: ...Thesaurus a controlled vocabulary with a relationship
(11:14:14 AM) Vcharles: issues: documentation, criteria for selection, open or not
(11:17:33 AM) ChiaraL: Value vocabularies vs schema vocabularies
(11:19:16 AM) Vcharles: For discovery it seems important to define users cases
(11:19:27 AM) ChiaraL: Value vocabulary : set of values, classes, such as people, places, events, etc
(11:19:33 AM) Vcharles: and use cases
(11:20:02 AM) Francesca [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(11:20:23 AM) ChiaraL: Schema vocabulary : set of attributes in RDF language that create a set of properties for specific use cases
(11:20:25 AM) Francesca: Matters of sustenability± hot to mantain tools that can mantain vocabularies=
(11:21:41 AM) Francesca: There are not many tools that can do this
(11:21:52 AM) Francesca: Only stand alone applications
(11:22:48 AM) ChiaraL: RDF based on triplets - subject, predicate, object
(11:23:02 AM) Francesca: Also, need of comunication between registries and vocabularies
(11:23:13 AM) ChiaraL: Subject must be a URI
(11:23:25 AM) Francesca: To be ableto notify changeswith the community
(11:23:36 AM) ChiaraL: Predicate must be a URI
(11:23:49 AM) ChiaraL: Object can instead be a literal
(11:24:30 AM) ChiaraL: Object can be a URI also
(11:25:15 AM) Francesca: The tools need to reflect the communication between communities
(11:25:33 AM) ChiaraL: When a URI is the final part of the triple you have Linked Data
(11:26:01 AM) Francesca: Need of collaborative work environment
(11:27:34 AM) Francesca: User can just access a browser to work with ontologies and vocabularies
(11:27:46 AM) Vcharles: ....quality control How much needed?
(11:28:32 AM) Francesca: Everybody should be able to access vocabularies trough a briwser
(11:29:09 AM) Vcharles: ...conflicted statements are not always bad
(11:29:17 AM) chrpr: Provenance session - outcomes / goals:
(11:29:45 AM) ChiaraL: Element vocabularies are made out of properties... Value vocabularies are made out of concepts
(11:31:18 AM) Vcharles: ....What is the best way to go: to have lot of constraints or a loose RDF ?
(11:31:34 AM) chrpr: Listing of problems and issues with metadata provenance; trying to begin brainstorming solutions
(11:31:44 AM) chrpr: Notion of named graphs coming up
(11:31:55 AM) Francesca: In an etheroginius community we need tools easy to use in the broad community
(11:32:34 AM) Vcharles: ...Errors in Linked Data can be used to correct the original data
(11:32:42 AM) Francesca: Parallelwith the CMS commuinity which is much more community centred
(11:33:06 AM) Francesca: The vocabulary and thesaury community should establish something similar
(11:33:09 AM) ChiaraL: DCT: title / RDA: hasTitleManifestation / ISBD: hasTitleProper
(11:33:41 AM) Vcharles: ...It is important to know who has created the voc: automation, human being...
(11:33:54 AM) Francesca: Which tools are being used
(11:34:08 AM) ChiaraL: ....We need to tell the machine that these are similar things
(11:35:27 AM) Vcharles: ....knowing where does it come from vs trusting where does it come from
(11:37:15 AM) Francesca: Which tools the user are committed to use
(11:37:57 AM) Francesca: The tools can be changed but this is very expensive
(11:38:32 AM) ChiaraL: .. Looking at the definition in human language.. creator, author, illustrator
(11:40:13 AM) Francesca: It would be possible to exchange vocabularies between different tools
(11:40:20 AM) ChiaraL: .. illustrator is a sub-property of creator
(11:41:12 AM) Francesca: A series oftools±
(11:41:37 AM) Francesca: Drupal
(11:41:52 AM) ChiaraL: Cataloguing rules determinates which way you get the value for specific properties...
(11:41:54 AM) Francesca: Scratchpads
(11:42:35 AM) Francesca: EZ / Publish
(11:42:41 AM) Francesca: Virtuoso
(11:43:08 AM) Francesca: CMS
(11:44:50 AM) ChiaraL: ....Interoperability is embedded in the concept of RDF
(11:46:01 AM) Vcharles: .....Selection and qualiy control is happening before and after the mapping/alignement activitites
(11:46:05 AM) ChiaraL: .. 30 to 40 properties for title are being developed at the moment
(11:46:11 AM) Francesca: WEB PORTALS, CMS capable of publishing, ONTOLOGY EDITORS
(11:47:05 AM) ChiaraL: FOAF and DCT
(11:49:02 AM) Francesca: ...need of modelling tools, able to connect onthologies
(11:49:21 AM) ChiaraL: .. AAA principle in RDF
(11:49:48 AM) ChiaraL: Anyone, anything, anywhere
(11:50:10 AM) ChiaraL: it can become an issue..
(11:50:52 AM) ChiaraL: Provenance : who said that?
(11:52:52 AM) Vcharles: ...Documentation is an important aspect with multiple components such as multilinguality
(11:53:17 AM) Vcharles: ....Is th strcture the only way of providing a meaningful documentation
(11:54:30 AM) ChiaraL: Q: Is there a way to built something that creates identification to assure reliable information? A: There is an issue and indeed it’s not possible…
(11:55:21 AM) ChiaraL: RDA started to declare elements – properties and classes ..
(11:55:44 AM) Francesca: How would it be possible to moderate a communty/based tool
(11:57:23 AM) Francesca: Which are your wishes concerning tools
(11:57:49 AM) Francesca: It should be collaborative and easy to use
(11:58:04 AM) ChiaraL: …the advice at the moment is to keep FRBR and RDA separated, but WHY??
(11:59:02 AM) Francesca: It should implement a functionality for visualisation of onthologies
(12:00:00 PM) Francesca: We need to manage more than one vocabulaires at the time
(12:00:06 PM) Vcharles: ...It's important to get the disciplinary perspective in the documentation as well
(12:00:10 PM) Francesca: Every change has to be recorded
(12:00:59 PM) ChiaraL: Q: Should we all have 1 mapping or should we have as many as needed? A: As many as we need!
(12:01:18 PM) Vcharles: ....How to transfer a scientific vocabulary into a vocabulary understandable by the general audience
(12:01:42 PM) Francesca: Scalability, a very important issue
(12:02:11 PM) ChiaraL: Q: Is there an uniform vocabulary to define the mapping? A: Yes! RDFS (RDF Schema)
(12:04:31 PM) Francesca: Vocabulary allignment, keep track of the used vocabulaires
(12:04:45 PM) Francesca: There are a few tools that keep track of the allignment
(12:06:50 PM) ChiaraL: DCT is the high lever glue, and bibliographic info is the refinement of DC
(12:08:39 PM) ChiaraL: DCT - Check the definitions to make sure they are utilized correctly
(12:10:00 PM) Francesca: Need of a function that uses only the needed onthology module
(12:10:27 PM) Vcharles: .....Focus is changing depending of the community: some are time centric, some context centric (archivists)
(12:10:33 PM) ChiaraL: Thesaurus and controlled vocabulary management needed to link a certain name in different languages
(12:11:14 PM) Vcharles: ....we need voc and systems able to support the notion of volatility
(12:12:31 PM) ChiaraL: URI for ‘dog’ is connected to the URI for ‘cane’ – that’s how we have a property
(12:14:07 PM) Vcharles: ....we also need to capture the voc within a particular time/period
(12:17:06 PM) Vcharles: ....the key seems to define clear use cases!!!!!
(12:19:26 PM) Francesca: Authomatic vocabulaires allignment
(12:20:06 PM) Francesca: What about if the vocabularies are the similar, how to give them an exact match
(12:21:33 PM) Francesca: There isa specific matching formula, forexample in SKOS it would be `exact`
(12:23:17 PM) Francesca: Is there enough documentation on how to use terms in onthologies
(12:25:05 PM) ChiaraL: VMF -Vocabulary mapping framework
(12:26:26 PM) ChiaraL: Issues about rights have been brought up.. need for open licences
(12:27:26 PM) Francesca: The end user can be very helpful in the improvement of vocabularies allignment
(12:29:12 PM) Francesca: This connects to data quality...
(12:31:10 PM) ChiaraL: ... Copyright issues in RDF vanish as everything is open
(12:31:58 PM) Francesca: Concluding, an ideal tool should include many ingredients, overlapping
(12:32:29 PM) Francesca: CMS; Onthology editor, Modelling, Triplestore, WEbPortals
(12:32:45 PM) ChiaraL: ... Never use an URI if you don’t know what the definition is
(12:34:23 PM) ChiaraL: …definition is the key
(12:35:21 PM) Francesca: In our design a metadata registry is missing
(12:35:43 PM) Francesca: and is positioningbetween the onthology editor and the web portal
(12:36:30 PM) Francesca: QWhich tools to publish the dataseta=
(12:37:57 PM) Francesca: Marbles, for example
(12:38:31 PM) ChiaraL: ...critical mass is based on statistical reliability
(12:38:56 PM) You are now known as chrpr_lunch
(12:39:10 PM) The account has disconnected and you are no longer in this chat. You will be automatically rejoined in the chat when the account reconnects.
Conversation with #dcmi at 9/21/2011 1:27:08 PM on charper@chat.freenode.net (irc)
(1:27:59 PM) You are now known as chrpr
(1:37:47 PM) Vcharles [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(1:38:08 PM) Francesca [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(1:38:29 PM) realworldobject: Sure.
(1:39:53 PM) ChiaraL [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(1:40:16 PM) tbaker [~chatzilla@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(1:40:31 PM) ***tbaker wonders who is scribing?
(1:40:42 PM) Vcharles: Jeff Young online with lightening talk on VIAF
(1:41:19 PM) chrpr: Viaf is using hadoop - didn't know that!
(1:41:28 PM) Vcharles: .......VIAF is considered from the vocabulary side
(1:41:31 PM) tbaker: ...VIAF records: each one in SKOS - runs through map-reduce.
(1:41:39 PM) ChiaraL: VIAF with Jeff Young
(1:41:57 PM) tbaker: ...each created as LD resource - 303 redirect to cluster resource
(1:41:57 PM) Vcharles: ....each records is treated as a LOD record
(1:42:54 PM) Vcharles: ...clusters were bfore matched in SKOS
(1:43:32 PM) tbaker: ...originally all SKOS, then FOAF entity, then back to SKOS concepts - then: "let's do both"
(1:43:42 PM) chrpr: Initial just skos per concept, but later added foaf as well as RDA
(1:43:49 PM) chrpr: Challenges to figure out how these are related
(1:44:16 PM) tbaker: SKOS person =? FOAF person =? RDA person ???
(1:44:22 PM) Vcharles: ....issue was to lonk FOAF concepts with the SKOs one and RDA
(1:44:36 PM) tbaker: ...connect using foaf:focus
(1:44:44 PM) Vcharles: ....Skos has been remodelled
(1:45:20 PM) tbaker: ...now we have thrown out SKOS concept - just one hub entity, and connect contributed concepts to that
(1:45:28 PM) Vcharles: Chiara and Francesca could you scribe as well?
(1:45:53 PM) metadata_maven [~metadata_@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(1:46:04 PM) ***tbaker waves to diane
(1:46:13 PM) Vcharles: ...transformation was done with an xslt stysheet
(1:46:31 PM) metadata_maven: Jeff Young talking about VIAF
(1:46:35 PM) chrpr: Interesting take-away is that VIAF adds a linked data layer on top of existing systems
(1:47:00 PM) tbaker: ...Pete Johnston a few days ago re: foaf:focus and modeling issues
(1:47:11 PM) metadata_maven: Important use case for foaf focus
(1:47:12 PM) chrpr: URL for Pete's post:
(1:47:13 PM) chrpr: <a href="http://efoundations.typepad.com/efoundations/2011/09/things-their-conceptualisations-skos-foaffocus-modelling-choices.html" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://efoundations.typepad.com/efoundations/2011/09/things-their-conceptualisations-skos-foaffocus-modelling-choices.html</a>
(1:47:16 PM) Vcharles: ....use of FOAF focus, implied modelling issues
(1:47:17 PM) tbaker: ...when we are talking about "models" and "vocabularies", same thing
(1:47:20 PM) Francesca: When we talked about models we tak about metadata
(1:47:29 PM) ChiaraL: Models and vocabularies are the exact same coin
(1:48:00 PM) chrpr: Importance of OWL for beginning to capture some of these vocabulary interrelationships
(1:48:25 PM) metadata_maven: OWL is important when talking about this desired functionality, still trying to figure out how all this fits together
(1:48:36 PM) Vcharles: ...still in process of looking at RDF/RDFs modeling
(1:49:04 PM) chrpr: object &amp; datatype property -- useful disticntion from OWL &amp; from URM
(1:49:07 PM) Vcharles: .....in OWL distinction object/data properties
(1:49:15 PM) Francesca: RDF, Distinction between object properties and data properties
(1:49:46 PM) Vcharles: ....nice to visualize ontology
(1:50:40 PM) Vcharles: ACTION: to provide Jeff contact to whom want to contact him
(1:52:23 PM) Vcharles: Presenter from Agris now
(1:53:06 PM) Vcharles: ....are building LOD version for their records
(1:53:09 PM) ChiaraL: OpenAgris presented now
(1:53:30 PM) Francesca: LOD application, link to dibipedia, link to the journal generated from Agri
(1:53:34 PM) Vcharles: ...Links to DBpedia, generated list of journals ...
(1:53:47 PM) chrpr: Disambiguation &amp; identification of 25,000 Jounrals!
(1:54:06 PM) Vcharles: ....Links to Agrovoc concepts
(1:55:08 PM) Vcharles: ....DBpedia link matched automatically from the Agrovoc thesaurus
(1:55:17 PM) kefo [~kefo@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(1:55:45 PM) Vcharles: ....use voc Bench editor [was mentionned this morning]
(1:55:50 PM) Francesca: ..Vocpench, a knowledge management editor
(1:56:16 PM) Francesca: is a webbased editor
(1:56:34 PM) Vcharles: ....from the editor to automatic indexing
(1:56:37 PM) Francesca: plus, automatic indexing
(1:57:16 PM) Vcharles: ...aim is to create a complete infrastructure to manage their vocabularies
(1:57:16 PM) ChiaraL: ...automatic indexing : upload the file and get URI that can be used in Linked Open data
(1:57:23 PM) Francesca: create an infrastructure from vocabulary, mantainance and to give people possibility to add value services
(1:57:36 PM) tbaker: Next: Jane Greenberg
(1:58:19 PM) Vcharles: Next Jane Grimberg?? for the Hive projec
(1:59:12 PM) Francesca: dinamic server that upoload vocabularies plus Chia Indexer
(1:59:14 PM) Vcharles: ....vocabulary server which used automatic indexing (kia software)
(1:59:39 PM) tbaker: ...Kia: machine-learning algorithm
(1:59:43 PM) Francesca: Kia is a machine learning algorithm
(1:59:44 PM) Vcharles: Correction Kea technology
(1:59:57 PM) ChiaraL: Vocabularies are updated every few weeks
(2:00:16 PM) chrpr: Honestly think some of this automatic indexing technology is going to be significant in assigning vocabulary terms to documents
(2:00:22 PM) chrpr: How to make vocabs easy to upload and manage
(2:01:24 PM) Vcharles: ..... Publishing voc as LOD makes important to upload and index them easily
(2:01:45 PM) Francesca: Semic Project
(2:02:09 PM) metadata_maven: SEMIC.eu--semantic interoperability for e-govt
(2:02:10 PM) Francesca: Semantic Interoperability for E Government
(2:02:18 PM) Vcharles: Next Stijn Goedertier for vocabularies for e governement Semic project
(2:02:21 PM) ChiaraL: DIGIT Core Vocabulary for e-Government aims at semantic interoperability
(2:02:45 PM) Francesca: Help to find and reuse these vocabularies
(2:03:13 PM) Vcharles: ......To achieve interoperabitlity there is a need of harmonization
(2:03:22 PM) Francesca: Can we acheive harmonization between vocabularies
(2:03:58 PM) ChiaraL: How to reach harmonization among different vocabularies?
(2:04:13 PM) Vcharles: ....are working on a Core vocabulary which is based on a simple data model
(2:04:57 PM) ChiaraL: ... a vocabulary can be considered as a simplified data model
(2:05:23 PM) Vcharles: ...Makx Deckers: important to know why we arecreating vocabularies
(2:05:45 PM) chrpr: "A little semantics goes a long way" -- Makx Deckers.
(2:06:09 PM) Vcharles: ....project should help the governement to build e infrastructure
(2:06:37 PM) Francesca: Use case from DEN, The Netherland
(2:06:41 PM) Vcharles: Marco Streffkerts from DEN
(2:07:13 PM) ChiaraL: Use case presented by Marco Streffkerts - DEN
(2:07:38 PM) Francesca: National infrastructure to support digitization projects, plus a national vocabulary
(2:07:59 PM) Vcharles: ....creation of a national vocabualry service is part of the national digital project in Netherlands
(2:08:33 PM) Francesca: Focus on the National territory
(2:08:51 PM) metadata_maven left the room (quit: Quit: The computer fell asleep).
(2:08:53 PM) tbaker: lightning talks done
(2:08:59 PM) Vcharles: ....Lot of the topics are related to the issues of selection, quality control of the vocabularies
(2:09:00 PM) ChiaraL: Focus on a country while working globally
(2:12:38 PM) chrpr: Breakout topics:
(2:12:43 PM) chrpr: * Advanced Mapping &amp; Alignments
(2:13:14 PM) kefo left the room (quit: Quit: Leaving.).
(2:13:17 PM) chrpr: * Governance, policy &amp; community
(2:13:31 PM) chrpr: Identifying, tracking Linked data use
(2:13:43 PM) chrpr: s/linked data/vocabulary
(2:13:49 PM) chrpr: Multi-lingual considerations
(2:15:17 PM) tbaker left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 276 seconds).
(2:15:28 PM) ChiaraL left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(2:16:30 PM) Vcharles: ..Advanced Mapping &amp; Alignement
(2:17:25 PM) Francesca: Francesca, Governance group
(2:17:53 PM) Francesca: What aspects of governance are of most interest
(2:17:58 PM) ChiaraL [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(2:18:11 PM) ChiaraL: RDF has a language attribuite
(2:18:30 PM) Francesca: Interest of participants
(2:18:38 PM) Francesca: Rights of many stakeholders
(2:18:58 PM) Francesca: Clear on what is allowed to do with vocabularies
(2:19:01 PM) ChiaraL: Multi-language session
(2:19:35 PM) Francesca: IP rights for the entire vocabulary
(2:20:11 PM) ChiaraL: Language attribute can be attached to annotation in RDF
(2:20:32 PM) Vcharles: ....after the 101 the remain questions are the process of mapping (which standards to consider)
(2:20:33 PM) Francesca: Governance has trhee parts
(2:20:42 PM) Francesca: roles and responsabilites
(2:20:46 PM) Francesca: use scenario
(2:20:54 PM) Francesca: goles and objectives
(2:21:08 PM) Vcharles: .....question of provenance: in he mapping who says
(2:21:40 PM) Francesca: The roles change depending from the perspective you take
(2:22:11 PM) Vcharles: .....Who to maintain mappings which have been already done, what happen along the time, when things change
(2:22:19 PM) ChiaraL: It’s safe to link URIs
(2:23:13 PM) tbaker [~chatzilla@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(2:23:41 PM) chrpr: Use scenarios session was underattended &amp; fizzled.
(2:24:22 PM) chrpr: Find me if there's interes in discussion of vocabulary usage metrics &amp; usage analysis
(2:24:24 PM) Vcharles: .....What is a mapping lifecycle? Documentation and guidelines are important in this area
(2:24:26 PM) ChiaraL: Annotation is a literal string
(2:24:45 PM) Francesca: How central has to be the control over vocabularies
(2:26:12 PM) Francesca: Multidomain adoption of vocabularies
(2:26:22 PM) Vcharles: ..next question is how to manage the changes
(2:27:16 PM) Francesca: ...broader adoption of vocabularies, need to encourage this process
(2:27:51 PM) realworldobject left the room (quit: Remote host closed the connection).
(2:27:58 PM) ChiaraL: hasName “Jon Smith” or with language annotation hasName “Jon Smith”@ru if in Russian
(2:29:05 PM) Vcharles: ....Registries can have a value in providing documentation and best practices
(2:30:05 PM) Francesca: with value vocabularies these issues became more pressing
(2:30:49 PM) ChiaraL: language attribute in RDF automatically gives you multilanguage and interoperability
(2:32:22 PM) Francesca: Central theme emerging, IP and editorial control over the central product
(2:32:23 PM) Vcharles: ....Mapping predicates are a vocabulary themselves (UMLS) as mapping predicates
(2:32:25 PM) Francesca: how to involve other communities
(2:32:46 PM) Francesca: we need best Practice Guidelines in this area
(2:33:20 PM) Francesca: 1. Community input
(2:35:20 PM) Vcharles: ....Are mentioned ALA subcommunity (ALCTS) // mapping predicates (see Greenberg)
(2:35:40 PM) Francesca: 2. Start with an organisation and then outgrows because of the mantenaince issue
(2:35:51 PM) Vcharles: ... thesauri standards are also importantt ISO 25964.2
(2:36:44 PM) realworldobject [~realworld@99-186-54-21.lightspeed.clmboh.sbcglobal.net] entered the room.
(2:36:48 PM) Francesca: 3. Value proposition of sharing vocabularies
(2:36:57 PM) realworldobject left the room (quit: Remote host closed the connection).
(2:36:59 PM) ChiaraL: xml language attribute for disambiguation
(2:37:57 PM) Francesca: 4. Subscription to cover costs
(2:40:07 PM) Francesca: 5. people using your vocabular gives you access to their info
(2:40:10 PM) Vcharles: .....Must pay attention to semantics/constraints of domain, fuzzy matches
(2:40:31 PM) Francesca: 6. Adaptation of specific vocabularies, how to handle this
(2:40:47 PM) Vcharles: ...and what happen to the data which don't match
(2:42:01 PM) Francesca: People using your vocabulary incorrectly, how to behave
(2:43:12 PM) Vcharles: .....There are different levels of mapping ( documented as part of the process)
(2:44:13 PM) Vcharles: ....we don't have to forget that he purpose of mapping relates to usefulness
(2:45:00 PM) Francesca: Need of best Practices to manage changes and additions to vicabularies
(2:45:15 PM) Vcharles: ....the provenance is important to carry he process and documentation
(2:45:25 PM) Francesca: Should other users be allowed to change my vocabulary
(2:45:49 PM) Vcharles: ...fear of the exact match or close match
(2:46:57 PM) ChiaraL_ [c0577b8e@gateway/web/freenode/ip.192.87.123.142] entered the room.
(2:47:52 PM) ChiaraL left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(2:48:00 PM) ChiaraL_: URIs need definitions and they need to be maintained!
(2:48:10 PM) Francesca: In order to make changes roles should be assigned, according to a certain level of rights
(2:51:38 PM) Francesca: Are there example of best practices
(2:52:05 PM) Francesca: people want to document policises in order to be shared then.
(2:52:46 PM) Vcharles: ... role of ratings and quality management in the creaton of mappings
(2:52:55 PM) Francesca: Documentation is the key see quality issues discussed in the morning
(2:53:02 PM) Francesca: Commercial use
(2:53:04 PM) kefo [~kefo@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(2:53:17 PM) Francesca: What to if htere is commercial use
(2:54:46 PM) Francesca: Issues on commercial use
(2:55:21 PM) Francesca: Example of Europeana
(2:55:32 PM) Vcharles: ...what are the role of tools in this?
(2:58:38 PM) Francesca: There is a technical environment for the mantainance of Thesauri and vocabularies
(3:00:13 PM) Francesca: Rulesof conduct,
(3:00:51 PM) Francesca: 1. Only create mantainance that is of your own interest
(3:00:58 PM) kefo1 [~kefo@kbt151.kb.nl] entered the room.
(3:02:52 PM) Francesca: attach sign `For commercial use`
(3:04:00 PM) kefo1 left the room.
(3:04:02 PM) Vcharles: .....What happens with vocabularies relationships?
(3:04:20 PM) RealWorldObject [~realworld@132-174-124-35.ip.oclc.org] entered the room.
(3:04:26 PM) kefo left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 240 seconds).
(3:04:45 PM) ChiaraL_: Conventions - class label : upper case; property label : lower case
(3:05:31 PM) kefo1 [~kefo@kbt151.kb.nl] entered the room.
(3:05:57 PM) Francesca: If you use a URI, you should respect the data
(3:06:42 PM) Vcharles: ......the provenance issue is linked with the metadata promiscuity
(3:06:57 PM) ChiaraL_: ....dct:title is the URI for the concept hasTitle – URI has not semantic in it at all (for instance: P99)
(3:07:05 PM) Francesca: title of this session is Acceptable Uses
(3:07:44 PM) Francesca: Principle of acceptable use
(3:09:25 PM) ChiaraL_ left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).
(3:10:00 PM) Francesca: What are the uses of a single community
(3:10:43 PM) kefo1 left the room.
(3:11:29 PM) The account has disconnected and you are no longer in this chat. You will be automatically rejoined in the chat when the account reconnects.
Conversation with #dcmi at 9/21/2011 3:28:43 PM on charper@chat.freenode.net (irc)
(3:28:43 PM) card.freenode.net: (notice) [freenode-info] please register your nickname...don't forget to auto-identify! <a href="http://freenode.net/faq.shtml#nicksetup" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://freenode.net/faq.shtml#nicksetup</a>
(3:35:54 PM) You are now known as chrpr
(3:41:21 PM) Vcharles: Report of the breakout section
(3:42:08 PM) Vcharles: 1-Preservation
(3:42:39 PM) Vcharles: ....TBaker reporting
(3:42:48 PM) chrpr: Breakout session reports:
(3:42:56 PM) Vcharles: ....need of promoting best practices if you maintain voc
(3:43:06 PM) chrpr: Role of memory organizations in backing things up &amp; sharing some responsibilities
(3:43:44 PM) Vcharles: ....Lowest layer of preservation: Bits, logs preserved
(3:44:11 PM) Vcharles: ... Higest layer of preservation: preserved infrastructure
(3:44:38 PM) Vcharles: ....For the triples it's important to keep the context
(3:46:23 PM) Vcharles: ....Institutions should work tgether on coalition ( create back up, mirrors)
(3:46:29 PM) chrpr: Tbaker 2nd report: Governance
(3:46:35 PM) Vcharles: 3-Governance
(3:46:59 PM) chrpr: Principles of acceptable use for vocabularies.
(3:47:06 PM) Vcharles: 2-Goverance sorry
(3:48:13 PM) Vcharles: ....when a vocabulary is reused, impose a requirement that the user should cite the original voc
(3:48:28 PM) kefo [~kefo@a82-93-83-52.adsl.xs4all.nl] entered the room.
(3:48:37 PM) Vcharles: ....some specific references/statements should be made
(3:48:40 PM) chrpr: Possible action item: draft principles of acceptable use
(3:49:06 PM) Vcharles: ....ACTION create a list of best practices on the wiki
(3:49:58 PM) Vcharles: ....within a voc community we should define roles with specific rights (edition, creation...)
(3:50:23 PM) Vcharles: ....it is not necessary to reinvent the wheel but better to aggregate best practices
(3:50:48 PM) Vcharles: .....and share these practices
(3:51:38 PM) Vcharles: 3-Mapping and alignement ( 2sessions 101/advanced)
(3:52:00 PM) Vcharles: .....difference between alignement and mapping was clarified
(3:52:41 PM) Vcharles: .....definition of vocabularies ( what is it?)
(3:52:54 PM) Vcharles: ...review of the structure of RDF triples
(3:53:14 PM) Vcharles: ....and the values ( literal vs string)
(3:53:17 PM) chrpr: Recurring theme - Allowing literals in object!
(3:54:12 PM) Vcharles: ....crowdsourcing might be not the best way to authentify a maaping
(3:54:43 PM) Vcharles: ...recurrent question how to authentify a mapping, how to trust it ?
(3:55:14 PM) Vcharles: .... better documentation seems the solution to lot of problems
(3:56:10 PM) Vcharles: .... definition of criteria when you want to do a mapping ( pay attention to semantics, constraints, fuzzy matches)
(3:56:33 PM) CaptSolo [captsolo@kaste.lv] entered the room.
(3:56:46 PM) chrpr: Fear of exact matches. Only people were considered equivelant. SKOS, but also more broadly.
(3:56:52 PM) Vcharles: ....people are afraid of the exact match, prefer to consider things equivalent
(3:58:11 PM) Vcharles: .... Mapping are different than ontologies, they are not always define in a domain
(3:58:25 PM) Vcharles: 4- Provenance
(3:59:06 PM) Vcharles: ....what is it ? information on the source of the information, the production of info
(3:59:38 PM) Vcharles: ....provenance about the metadata itself
(4:00:15 PM) Vcharles: ....where in the triples we need the provenance info? at a statement level, at a graph level?
(4:00:45 PM) Vcharles: ...versioning same issue need to determine the level
(4:01:13 PM) Vcharles: .. not lot of tools seem available to solve this issue
(4:01:23 PM) tbaker [~chatzilla@kbt173.kb.nl] entered the room.
(4:01:39 PM) Francesca [525d5334@gateway/web/freenode/ip.82.93.83.52] entered the room.
(4:01:59 PM) Vcharles: ....W3C?DCMI are working on these issues. To follow up
(4:02:49 PM) Vcharles: ....graph versioning is needed and at each point in time it should be possible to go back to the old version
(4:03:29 PM) Vcharles: ....alert for changes, base URL could be solutions
(4:04:04 PM) Vcharles: 5-Usage of voc
(4:04:30 PM) Vcharles: ....usage matrics, statistics should be published and circulated
(4:05:06 PM) tbaker: Diane reporting on Discovery, selection, and quality control
(4:05:09 PM) Vcharles: 6-Selection, discovery, quality control wih Diane
(4:06:06 PM) Vcharles: ....selection: different in the LD context than in the silo contex
(4:06:32 PM) Vcharles: ....determine what is available as a web product
(4:06:43 PM) Vcharles: ....look for documentation
(4:06:57 PM) Vcharles: open vs proprietary
(4:07:10 PM) ChiaraL [c0577b8e@gateway/web/freenode/ip.192.87.123.142] entered the room.
(4:07:15 PM) Vcharles: ....if voc is coming from a trustable source or not
(4:07:48 PM) Vcharles: ...quality: how much is needed?
(4:08:22 PM) Vcharles: ....usage of domain, constraints need to be considered
(4:08:58 PM) Vcharles: .....name of the URI is useful to identify the provenance
(4:09:50 PM) Vcharles: ....Documentation again mentionned as a key apsect
(4:11:48 PM) Vcharles: ....we need to keep track of the voc over time and manage the change (change in semantics...)
(4:12:13 PM) chrpr: Distribution and Redundancy are *good*.
(4:12:47 PM) Vcharles: 7-Multilingualiy
(4:12:58 PM) tbaker: Gordon on RDF in multilingual environment
(4:13:09 PM) Vcharles: ...use of xml:lang attributes on annotation
(4:13:36 PM) Vcharles: ....but it doesn't cover everyhing
(4:14:30 PM) Vcharles: .... use of webontologies languages Are they filling the semantic gap?
(4:14:57 PM) chrpr: OWLs usefulness for helping manage manage the multi-lingualism.
(4:15:05 PM) Vcharles: ....it is an area under research and is difficult to grasp
(4:15:19 PM) chrpr: (Would like to pull Jeff Young into that conversation.
(4:15:28 PM) Francesca: need for developers
(4:15:34 PM) Vcharles: ...annotations on classes and properties should be used
(4:16:04 PM) Vcharles: ...let's wait tthe presentation tomorrow on the topic
(4:16:24 PM) Vcharles: ....guidances are required
(4:16:28 PM) ChiaraL: translating RFD labels into other languages .. paper which will be presented tomorrow
(4:16:50 PM) Vcharles: .....DCMI might want to look at its own namespaces and try to translate them
Conversation with #dcmi at 9/21/2011 4:23:42 PM on charper@chat.freenode.net (irc)
(4:24:04 PM) You are now known as chrpr
(4:24:09 PM) Vcharles: .... there is need of community tools, allowing people to exchange information
(4:24:50 PM) ChiaraL left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(4:25:02 PM) Vcharles: .... an area to explore automatic vocabulary alignement
(4:27:01 PM) Vcharles: End of breakout session
(4:27:17 PM) kefo left the room.
(4:27:55 PM) Vcharles: A short survey will be sent out
(4:28:39 PM) Vcharles: Diane on stage
(4:29:10 PM) chrpr: Diane's top takeaways:
(4:29:15 PM) chrpr: 1. Best practices documentation
(4:29:16 PM) Vcharles: ....this meeting should be the beginning of the discussion on vocabularies
(4:29:54 PM) Vcharles: ... wish number 1: use cases, documentation, guidelines needed
(4:30:41 PM) Vcharles: ....guidances for new practioners especially
(4:32:02 PM) Vcharles: 2- More voc available on the web to be reused, mapped
(4:32:25 PM) Vcharles: 3-Better multilinguality strategy
(4:33:27 PM) Vcharles: 4- Reponsible versioning
(4:34:09 PM) Vcharles: 5- Need environment to share these vocabularies
(4:34:33 PM) Vcharles: 6-Better qualiy control, definition of quality criteria
(4:36:17 PM) Vcharles: Important to not provide best practices with a narrow scope
(4:38:31 PM) Vcharles: ..Proposition of a DCMI vocabualry management group
(4:39:06 PM) Vcharles: ....could be through the creation of a mailinglis, a wiki....
(4:42:34 PM) jphipps [~jphipps@53540C1C.cm-6-5a.dynamic.ziggo.nl] entered the room.
(4:47:06 PM) Vcharles: Seem to be lot of interest in Diane's ideas
(4:47:49 PM) Vcharles: If DCMI need people to work on documentation, then it should be splitted into areas of interest
(4:49:45 PM) Vcharles: From today DCMI might need to 'throw' topics away
(4:53:34 PM) ChiaraL_: ...what we cannot do is a model for anybody else, at this moment is a model for nobody
(4:54:47 PM) Francesca: DCMI needs to create allignment between vocabularies
(4:54:55 PM) ChiaraL_: DCMI needs to create alignments more than vocabularies
(4:58:45 PM) ChiaraL_: ... The guidance are not for expert, the expert know this stuff already
(4:59:11 PM) Vcharles: This session has opened DCMI to a bigger audience
(5:05:39 PM) tbaker left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 260 seconds).
(5:07:00 PM) ChiaraL_ left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).
(5:07:08 PM) Vcharles left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).
(5:07:56 PM) Francesca left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(5:10:54 PM) The account has disconnected and you are no longer in this chat. You will be automatically rejoined in the chat when the account reconnects.
</pre>
