---
title: AB-SC-2014-July-10-Minutes
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/AB-SC-2014-July-10-Minutes.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 14 July 2014, at 21:09.  
This page has been accessed 25,179 times.

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
          <a href="#Advisory_Board_Steering_Committee_3rd_meeting_.28July_10.2C_2014_one_hour.29"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Advisory Board Steering Committee 3rd meeting (July 10, 2014 one hour)</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3">
          <a href="#Minutes"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Minutes</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#1._Updates_from_the_EC_meeting"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">1. Updates from the EC meeting</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#2._Education_and_Outreach_Committee"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">2. Education and Outreach Committee</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-6"><a href="#3..09Conferences_and_Meetings_Committee"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">3.	Conferences and Meetings Committee</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-7"><a href="#4..09New_Business."><span class="tocnumber">2.4</span> <span class="toctext">4.	New Business.</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-8"><a href="#Additional_notes:"><span class="tocnumber">2.5</span> <span class="toctext">Additional notes:</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Advisory Board Steering Committee 3rd meeting (July 10, 2014 one hour) 

6:00 am.- Pacific time: 9:00 am.-NY time; 2:00 pm.-Lisbon and London; 3:00 pm. -Brussels; and 9:00 pm.-Shanghai.

Participation: Ana Alice Baptista, Joseph Busch, Keven Liu, Muriel Foulonneau, Stuart Sutton, Marcia Zeng Excused: Emma Tonkin

## Agenda 

1. Brief updates (Marcia & Joseph on the EC meeting the day before)

2. Education and Outreach Committee updates (Ana & Keven)

3. Conferences and Meetings Committee updates (Muriel & Emma)&nbsp;

4. New Business:

(1) Action: AB Membership Proposal

(2) Action: Proposal for the Recognition of Contributors

(3) Discussion: A new task force -- Publications Futures

(4) Info: AB Committee meeting time at 2014 Annual Meeting

(5) Confirmation needed – Em and Muriel to join a task force

other

# Minutes 

## 1. Updates from the EC meeting 
<pre>(briefs given by Marcia, Joseph, and Stuart). 
</pre>
- • Several new actions (to be discussed later)
- • Info: New Chair-elect of Governing Board (also DCMI Chair-elect): Joseph Tennis 
- • Info: Membership Fee adjusted 
  - o Regular (formerly $150) will become $75/year
  - o Student/Retiree (formerly $75) will become $35/year
  - o Membership incorporated in DCMI 2014 conference. See [http://dcevents.dublincore.org/index.php/IntConf/index/pages/view/registration-2014](http://dcevents.dublincore.org/index.php/IntConf/index/pages/view/registration-2014)

## 2. Education and Outreach Committee 
<pre>(Ana &amp; Keven)
</pre>
- Reports:
  - • No new activities yet.
  - • Info: Mike asked EC to give feedback to the draft plan. 

Stuart reminders that sometimes silence means approval; do not wait if need acting on anything on that plan.

- Webinar related discussions:
  - • Stuart explained the Sept.- Dec. tentative Webinar schedule sheet. This was requested by ASIST since DCMI now using its platform. 
  - • Stuart and Tom Baker discussed one possibility for Sept. & Oct. webinars: to invite those who gave DCMI/NISO Webinars last year to do it again for DCMI members, since those webinars (e.g., by Johannes Keizer of FAO) since those were seldom attended by DCMI people due to the high registration fee. Now it is free for members therefore these could benefit the members. 
  - • Joseph emphasized how important the webinars are as the keys to drive individual members and suggested to have a discussion in the AB Annual Meeting in DCMI2014. Joseph suggested to find out topics that are useful and valuable to people. Stuart suggested that the survey be conducted online and do not wait till Austin meeting.
  - • Action: The AB Annual Business meeting will discuss the Webinar related issues, including especially how to promote and select. 
  - • Action: Education & Outreach Committee will initiate a questionnaire for conducting a survey on webinar topics.

## 3. Conferences and Meetings Committee 
<pre>(Muriel)
</pre>
- • The Committee has one more member on the committee now. Projects about 5-8 on the committee including the chairs.
- • Stuart suggested to ask the past conference organizers to serve on the committee, in order to pass on the experiences. Muriel and Marcia expressed the possibility that those organizers may not want to serve for another year. Maybe they could be asked as consultants. Stuart emphasized that it should be clear that this is not to ask them to do the conference committee for two years. It is the standing committee that they could serve. 
- • Muriel asked Ana’s availability of early August for a tele-conference.
- • Action: The committee will set up a WebEx call regarding the macro-level planning of the 2015 Brazil conference. Will invite Stuart and Ana to attend. These include (but not limited by) planning regarding personals such as program chair, budget, etc. The timing is early August. 

## 4. New Business. 

- (1) AB Membership Proposal.
  - • Marcia explained the action to be established: to propose the AB membership solution, including who should be on and how to maintain the list. Stuart suggested to reassess what ‘active’ means, which was defined at DCMI bylaw. 
  - • Marcia shared a Knowledge Audit sheet prepared last year regarding the active levels of the communities and task groups. (Refer to the communities and task force list: [/mediawiki_wiki/AB-Knowledge-Audit](/mediawiki_wiki/AB-Knowledge-Audit)). 

Stuart questioned about the accuracy of the sheet, as some groups did not seem to be active according to the monthly mailing list data. Marcia explained that these were based on the Wiki pages as well as on the annual conference/ meeting activities.

- 
  - • An action is established. First we will discuss through mailing list of SC. Hope we can present to the EC and AB members before or at the annual meeting.
  - • Action: AB to develop a plan for deciding on AB membership (which may need fuller discussion in the Annual meeting). Topics may include: 1, Who should be on (criteria & process) and 2, How to maintain the AB member list

- (2) Contribution recognition proposal.
  - • Marcia brought up the new business item that AB-SC would like to propose a plan for recognizing the DCMI contributors who are finishing their terms. This was discussed yesterday at the EC meeting. The SC’s consensus is that this is a good idea. This is related to the AM membership proposal.
  - • Action: AB to develop a proposal regarding the recognition of the contributors. It includes: Who should be recognized, How to recognize, and When to recognize.

- (3) Discussion: A new Task Force -- Publications Futures.
  - • Muriel suggested inviting Kai to participate, since he shared ideas last year. Muriel will also take this to Em to decide who should be on the committee. Marcia indicated that Ana has done some research already and she volunteered to be on the Task Force.
  - • Stuart remaindered that this is more than proceedings’ publications. Occasional paper series, special topic issues can also be considered.

- (4) Information: Annual Meeting schedule: AB Meeting I and II are in the morning. Committee meetings are scheduled in the afternoon. (They also can be held at other time at the annual conference. Some rooms and slots are OPEN.) WebEx sessions can be scheduled for those meetings if someone cannot attend face-to-face. 

- (5) Action: Muriel & Emma as C&M chairs are invited to join the Task Group chaired by Eric (M&F Committee Task Group on Annual Conference/Meeting). Muriel will check with Emma to see if one or both to be on the Task Group. Will email to Eric directly for more information and confirmation.

## Additional notes: 

- 
  - • No August meeting for AB SC.
  - • Next meeting: Second Thursday (11th) of September 9:00 am. NY time; Joseph will lead the meeting.) 
  - • SC previous meeting minutes are available at: [/mediawiki_wiki/AB-SC-Minutes](/mediawiki_wiki/AB-SC-Minutes)

