---
title: AB-SC-2014-June-12-Minutes
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/AB-SC-2014-June-12-Minutes.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 10 July 2014, at 16:55.  
This page has been accessed 27,050 times.

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Steering_Committee_Meeting_.28June_12.2C_2014.29"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Steering Committee Meeting (June 12, 2014)</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3">
          <a href="#Minutes"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Minutes</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Appendix"><span class="tocnumber">3.1</span> <span class="toctext">Appendix</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Steering Committee Meeting (June 12, 2014) 

6:00 am.- Pacific time: 9:00 am.-NY time; 2:00 pm.-Lisbon and London; 3:00 pm. -Brussels; and 9:00 pm.-Shanghai.

Participation: Ana Alice Baptista, Joseph Busch, Keven Liu, Stuart Sutton, Emma Tonkin, Marcia Zeng Excused: Muriel Foulonneau

## Agenda 

- Update from Technical Board chair (Kai)
- Update from Advisory Board chair (Marcia)
- Update from Nominations and Bylaws committee (Mike)
- Update from Finance and Membership committee (Eric)
- Conference planning update (Stuart)
- June message from the chair (Mike)

## Minutes 

1. AB-related issues came out from the EC meeting (briefs given by Marcia, Joseph, and Stuart). 
  - Regarding the process for adding new members to AB list. The question was if a new committee or task group chair should be automatically added to the AB list. 
    - The SC agrees that at least for now this should still follow the previous practices, to add the people who are new chairs. The board should always be the place to engage the people who are involved and potentially will involve in DCMI activities. 
    - As for the maintenance of the list the issue is a broader one, relating to the membership of the AB. 
  - Education and Outreach committee might hear the feedback on their planning document from Executive Committee members. The feedback will be sent to DC-EOC.JISCMAIL.AC.UK. in order to keep a record. 
  - Information: Discussion of communities/task groups, their roles and their positions in the DCMI structure will be held at the future DCMI-EC meeting.
  - Regional Meetings: Stuart will follow up on publicity for the Shanghai regional meeting. [http://society.library.sh.cn/IT4L2014](http://society.library.sh.cn/IT4L2014)
  - Information: RDF-AP Task Group was launched.
  - Information: Community Specification Committee is considering basic parameters and open questions. May need to have a workshop at annual meeting.
  - About Annual conference and meetingâ€™s plan, according to Stuart, there are still room and time for proposing sponsored sessions and technical workshops. Communities and Task Groups need to go through the regular submission channel. So far no one proposed anything, and the announcements were sent to AB list twice already. 
2. Education and Outreach Committee (Ana reported):
  - Handed the draft with the objective to Marcia and Joseph;
  - Updated the document following some Marcia and Joseph feedback;
  - Created one wiki page for the objectives; [/mediawiki_wiki/Objectives](/mediawiki_wiki/Objectives.md)
  - Created a Trello board. [https://trello.com/b/A5TlYOf4/dc-eoc](https://trello.com/b/A5TlYOf4/dc-eoc)
  - To do till the end of June: to define main tasks; and to invite people to the base-team.
3. Conferences and Meetings Committee Updates (Emma)
  - Sent a document to the potential members.
  - Will circulate the draft of different levels of involvement. 
  - Stuart remaindered that when communicating with the potential members, should distinguish the role of the committee from the actual annual meeting committee.
  - For the 2014 conference, things are almost finalized.
  - For the 2015 Brazil conference, Ana has been helping the communication. 
  - Action: Emma will set up a WebEx call regarding the macro-level planning of the 2015 Brazil conference. Will invite Stuart and Ana to attend. These include (but not limited by) planning regarding personals such as program chair, budget, etc. (expecting in the next 3-4 months.)
  - The macro-level planning for the 2016 conference will also happen in a few months. Will align with ASIST but the location is not finalized yet.
4. The DCMI Webinar program planning
  - Stuart asked for help from the Education & Outreach Committee to recruit for the webinar program. The DCMI linked data webinar held recently on the ASIST platform was the best attended ever for ASIST. These are free to DCMI members and only $20 for non-members (as opposed to over $100 for NISO-hosted webinars) There is a form for submitting webinar proposals on the wiki. The work is how to get people interested in submitting proposals that fit within the DCMI work areas. The focus needs to be on identifying people.
  - Joseph suggested that it would be useful to develop a list of people to target for webinars such as those working on interesting projects, academic researchers and PhD candidates. This is how ASIST gets webinar proposals.
  - Stuart mentioned that he and Tom Baker have shared an Evernote folder where they post ideas for webinars. [We could use a DropBox folder] Identifying webinar proposers needs to be a top priority.
5. Future meeting.
  - Joseph asked whether people would be available for the next meeting on the second Thursday of July (July 10). Emma said that she would be unavailable. 
  - It was decided to plan to meet in July, but not in August when many people will on vacation.

Joseph thanked everyone for their continuing work and adjourned the meeting.

### Appendix 

Immediately after the meeting, these emails were exchanged:

- From: Stuart Sutton <sasutton@dublincore.net>
- Reply-To: DCMI Advisory Board Steering Committee <DC-AB-SC@JISCMAIL.AC.UK>
- Date: Thursday, June 12, 2014 10:12 AM
- To: "DC-AB-SC@JISCMAIL.AC.UK" <DC-AB-SC@JISCMAIL.AC.UK>
- Subject: Note on webinars

There were a few comments in the chat on the WebEx session as we ended that I had not caught.

We do have the technical platform (GoToMeeting) that ASIS&T uses available to us as well as the registration infrastructure etc.. All we have to do is the work of arranging, scheduling and promoting. Currently, we have nothing in place in terms of the "how to" of submitting a proposal or how the DC-EOC handles selection/scheduling. The form for submitting is on the TOC of the DCMI handbook (wiki) right near the top of the page [1]. We have a DCMI site build scheduled for next week and I can include links to the online submission form there as well.

Working out process is something that I have to leave to the EOC but will obviously support and help. Seeme to me like the up-front role is for the DC-EOC to think through process in terms of meeting education/training goals. The fact that a webinar series that's freely available to DCMI Individual Members and at very, very modest fees to non-members is a good thing as incentive to membership is a foregone conclusion as far as I am concerned.

Stuart

[1] [/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI\_Handbook](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook.md)

- From: keven lw <kevenlw@gmail.com>
- Reply-To: DCMI Advisory Board Steering Committee <DC-AB-SC@JISCMAIL.AC.UK>
- Date: Thursday, June 12, 2014 11:27 AM
- To: "DC-AB-SC@JISCMAIL.AC.UK" <DC-AB-SC@JISCMAIL.AC.UK>
- Subject: Re: Note on webinars

Yes. I agree that starting with Webinar is a good idea. All the planning of DC-EOC has a hitch or pivot to carry on then. The key point is we should work out a workable platform or tools to do the whole procedure:

1. call for (or ask for) speakers and topics (co-functioning with mailing list)
2. arrange program and schedule
3. promotion and advocating (free to everyone if register membership or subscriber DCMI mailing list)
4. archiving for later usage (act as MOOC)
5. award with certificate/souvenir/gift/money. and lottery give to audience

And we will have volunteers to do documentation or translation work, starting with the former webinar materials. After some time we may grow a set of curricula for DCMI.

Maybe it's too idealistic but we can try.

keven

