---
title: Agenda for 2012 04 26 meeting
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/Agenda_for_2012_04_26_meeting.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 4 May 2012, at 11:25.  
This page has been accessed 137,331 times.

### [DCMI Vocabulary Management Community](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Vocabulary_Management_Community), first meeting: April 26, 2012

The DCMI Vocabulary Management Community will be holding its inaugural Meeting in London on April 26, 2012, in conjunction with and immediately following the [DCMI Bibliographic Metadata Task Group](/mediawiki_wiki/Bibliographic_Metadata_Task_Group#). The meetings will be followed on April 27 by a seminar examining the impact of the London Meeting of 2007, which brought DCMI and the Joint Steering Committee for Development of RDA (JSC) together to build the RDA Vocabularies. The DCMI meetings are free and open to all (although registration is required for attendance, and is now closed).

- 2:00 pm (14:00): Welcome and short agenda review

- 2:15 (14:15) Sustainability, Discovery, and Selection

This session will begin with a short talk (10 min.) by Bernard Vatant, discussing his three recent blog posts [1] [2] [3] which focus on the role of sustainability in the vocabulary commons, suggesting that change must come through directed group action. Discussions on this issue will include the Discovery and Selection issues developed at the Vocabulary Management session prior to the DCMI 2011 conference in The Hague [4].

- 3:15 pm (15:15): Break

- 3:30 pm (15:30): Issues in Multilingual Vocabulary Development

This session will begin with a short report by Mike Lauruhn on the efforts made in the last several months to define the problem space for multilingual vocabularies and to solicit use cases from vocabulary managers working with existing and expanding multi-lingual vocabularies. This group has developed a wiki [5], which includes some information on the group's conversations and links to useful standards documentation.

- 3:40 pm (15:45) Short demonstration (10 min.) of Open Metadata Registry development of multilingual capability, currently used to demonstrate a strategy based on common URIs and multiple languages. The OMR is now developing the capacity for managers and/or users to upload/download vocabularies using specialized spreadsheets.

Discussion will focus on identification of priority issues in this area, and where the Community can best focus its energies. Emphasis will be on development, management and documentation issues, building on the discussions above. Participants should make every effort to review in advance the referenced documents below, in particular the draft Guidelines for translations of IFLA namespaces in RDF, circulated in an email [6] where there is an existing request from IFLA to provide feedback.

- 5:00 pm (17:00) Close of meeting

- [1] [http://blog.hubjects.com/2012/03/lov-stories-part-1-commons.html](http://blog.hubjects.com/2012/03/lov-stories-part-1-commons.html)
- [2] [http://blog.hubjects.com/2012/03/lov-stories-part-2-gardeners-and.html](http://blog.hubjects.com/2012/03/lov-stories-part-2-gardeners-and.html)
- [3] [http://blog.hubjects.com/2012/04/lov-stories-part-3-vocabularies-as.html](http://blog.hubjects.com/2012/04/lov-stories-part-3-vocabularies-as.html)
- [4] [/mediawiki_wiki/DC-2011\_Vocabulary\_Special\_Session/Meeting\_Report](/mediawiki_wiki/DC-2011_Vocabulary_Special_Session/Meeting_Report)
- [5] [/mediawiki_wiki/Multilingual\_Vocabulary\_Standards](/mediawiki_wiki/Multilingual_Vocabulary_Standards)
- [6] [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1204&L=DC-RDA&P=5240](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1204&L=DC-RDA&P=5240)

