---
title: Amplified Conference
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Conferences/Amplified_Conference.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 14 September 2011, at 14:21.  
This page has been accessed 46,631 times.

## Towards an "Amplified Conference" 

This note discusses how DCMI might open up the annual conference to audiences beyond the conference venue to the extent: (1) technically and economically feasible; and (2) that such access does not inappropriately impair the conference host's ability to recoup conference costs. DCMI could define the annual meeting an "amplified conference" through the use of networked technologies. Brian Kelly (UK Web Focus) identifies the following characteristics of conferences that amplify their effects through network technologies and collateral communication mechanisms:

- **Amplification of the audiences’ voice** : Prior to the availability of real time chat technologies at events (whether use of IRC, Twitter, instant messaging clients, etc.) it was only feasible to discuss talks with immediate neighbors, and even then this may be considered rude.
- **Amplification of the speaker’s talk** : The availability of video and audio-conferencing technologies make it possible for a speaker to be heard by an audience which isn’t physically present at the conference. Although use of video technologies has been available to support conferences for some time, this has normally been expensive and require use of dedicated video-conferencing technologies. However the availability of of lightweight desktop tools make it much easier to deploy such technologies, without even, requiring the involvement of conference organizers.
- **Amplification across time** : Video and audio technologies can also be used to allow a speaker’s talk to be made available after the event, with use of podcasting or videocasting technologies allowing the talks to be easily syndicated to mobile devices as well as accessed on desktop computers.
- **Amplification of the speaker’s slides** : The popularity of global repository services for slides, such as Slideshare, enable the slides used by a speaker to be more easily found, embedded on other Web sites and commented upon, in ways that were not possible when the slides, if made available at all, were only available on a conference Web site.
- **Amplification of feedback to the speaker** : Micro-blogging technologies, such as Twitter, are being used not only as a discussion channel for conference participants but also as a way of providing real-time feedback to a speaker during a talk. We are also now seeing dedicated microblogging technologies, such as Coveritlive and Scribblelive, being developed which aim to provide more sophisticated ‘back channels’ for use at conferences.
- **Amplification of a conference’s collective memory** : The popularity of digital cameras and the photographic capabilities of many mobile phones is leading to many photographs being taken at conferences. With such photographs often being uploaded to popular photographic sharing services, such as Flickr, and such collections being made more easy to discovered through agreed use of tags, we are seeing amplification of the memories of an event though the sharing of such resources. The ability of such photographic resources to be ‘mashed up’ with, say, accompanying music, can similarly help to enrich such collective experiences (such as the Animoto clips of IWMW 2007 and UKOLN’s Exploiting The Potential Of Blogs and Social Networks Workshop).
- **Amplification of the learning** : The ability to be able to follow links to resources and discuss the points made by a speaker during a talk can enrich the learning which takes place at an event, as described by Shabajee’s article on “‘Hot’ or Not? Welcome to real-time peer review” published in the Times Higher Educational Supplement in May 2003.
- **Long term amplification of conference outputs** : The availability in a digital format of conference resources, including ‘official’ resources such as slides, video and audio recordings, etc. which have been made by the conference organizers with the approval of speakers, together with more nebulous resources such as archives of conference back channels, and photographs and unofficial recordings taken at the event may help to provide a more authentic record of an event, which could potentially provide a valuable historical record. [1]
- **Remote participation** : Participation by scholars and implementers submitting papers could be amplified by permitting a select number of papers to be included in the conference proceedings without requiring the physical presence of the authors of those papers at the conference. Use of the same technologies noted above to reach audiences beyond the conference venue could be used to extend both the presentation of such papers by their authors as well as subsequent conversation around those papers. We make this proposal because of certain historical realities. Comparing attendance and paper submissions both in terms of quantity and quality for conferences over the past few years shows that although we have had excellent host support for our conferences based in Asia, we have also had significant challenges attracting good papers and participants from North America and Europe when we meet in Asia. The costs for Europeans and North Americans attending Asian conferences can be quite prohibitive; the same is true for Asians attending conferences in Europe and North America. Given currently escalating costs for travel and the rising awareness of the carbon footprint of such travel, these economic issues will only become more severe and limiting. This year and the next few years are likely to be difficult ones from the point of view of on-site participation no matter where we meet, given the economic situation in education and research institutions who have traditionally funded DC participation. Given this reality, this is a good time to consider finding alternative ways to enhance the experience for those who are attending a conference, and drawing in those who cannot attend--as "content providers" (e.g., submitting papers) and/or "virtual participants."

It was obvious at DC2006 in Mexico that a significant number of participants were live-streaming the conference to colleagues beyond the conference venue, suggesting that there might be considerable demand for a fee-based high-quality live feed. One of the challenges for an organization like DCMI will be that allowing fee-based remote access may well mean a shift in revenue from attendance-based fees to remote access. Although improvements in participation, particularly long-term participation, might be good news for the organization as a whole, taking these steps might well result in a broader audience but lower physical attendance at some or most venues. With lower attendance comes fewer opportunities to network and a less-certain revenue stream. It might be a good idea to take a look at some social networking software that's intended to support conferences with the goal of including non-physical participants and aggregating data (blogs/video/photos) from multiple sources: Crowdvine ( [http://www.crowdvine.com/home/features](http://www.crowdvine.com/home/features) ) supports many of the amplification features outlined above. It's being used by the O'reilly Web 2.0 conference ( [http://webexny2008.crowdvine.com/](http://webexny2008.crowdvine.com/)).

In March 2011, Lorcan Dempsey posted an [[set of links](http://orweblog.oclc.org/archives/002162.html%7Cupdated)] about amplified conferences.

[1] [http://ukwebfocus.wordpress.com/2008/08/28/defining-an-amplified-conference/](http://ukwebfocus.wordpress.com/2008/08/28/defining-an-amplified-conference/)  
[2] [http://orweblog.oclc.org/archives/002162.html](http://orweblog.oclc.org/archives/002162.html)

