---
title: minutes20150521
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/minutes20150521.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 25 August 2015, at 17:29.  
This page has been accessed 13,507 times.

<pre>
DCMI RDF AP Task Group
/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles
Meeting date: May 21, 2015
Meeting link: https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=MDAL0I2WSSY4CQBPV7OKXPJGYL-JV0D&amp;rnd=702133.44251

Attendees: Valentine, Antoine, Evelyn, Corey, Thomas, Stefanie
Regrets: Karen, Hugo, Lars
    

1. Alignment between DCMI and W3C Requirements
DCMI Req Database: http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/
Requirement discussion pad: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements_analysis 
New cleaned list: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Requirements
all W3C drafts (5) https://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Main_Page#Proposals
W3C Use Cases and Requirements: http://www.w3.org/TR/shacl-ucr/

Comparison of W3C and DCMI requirements:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bCpQVyxI-N2Ca83umvQD8OKTdsDyG6Sz-E8Qo3v8ynM/

Hugo's email with suggestions: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;41aa27ca.1505
- the requirements from W3C that are not yet mapped but could have a match in DC.
DONE except We can't really agree on R(5.)11: supported by R25 if it supports object properties
ACTION: Hugo to come with examples for these requirements
--DONE: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;8b1e1ee3.1505
There was no link

We should try to do the rest by email:
- requirements taken from W3C which apparently don’t have a match in DC
- suggestions on the mapping from DC to W3C

2. Development of test cases

ACTION: Karen &amp; Valentine: Develop one or more test cases based on Europeana data

Valentine: we started. Two samples have been prepared:
    - one valid EDM
    - one with errors
Karen will use the samples in the W3C context. I don't know how they will be used

Corey: it would be good if you could share, so that we can send more to W3C
... I could do something based on Hydra work
Valentine: I'll share!

Stefanie: I have prepared some samples. I will share them to the group.

3. Core DCMI Requirements

Voting at 
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bCpQVyxI-N2Ca83umvQD8OKTdsDyG6Sz-E8Qo3v8ynM/

Antoine: We could close the vote
Evelyn: yes! I have voted too
    
Possible work: re-orderning by number of votes, or basic vs. complex. Not throwing anything away

ACTION: Karen to send an email re-organization reqs, to see if the notion of 'core' help us to make things clearer
--ONGOING

3. Other requirement actions

ACTION: Corey and Karen to write up cases of validation with de-referencing or local caches, to be sent to W3C

Corey: I thought we had done.
... I had drafted something during a meeting
... I thought it had been sent and they were not very interested
... I will ask Karen for confirmation.

Antoine: in any case we should keep track. It was a useful discussion

Corey: a group in Hydra could work on it - a sprint on Linked Data Fragment and Fedora. June 8-June 19
... I don't know yet if there are validation-related requirements
... right now it's focused on fetching, indexing, faceting, display

Antoine: we could come back to the topic after the sprint.

R-71 Conditional properties http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/78 
ACTION: Stefanie and Valentine find or make up examples and them in the description of the requirement
--DONE: http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/78

Express requirements as RDF, mapping between DSP and our requirements
Thomas: i was interested in the requirements
Corey: it could be good to wait for W3C

Requirement changes:
Hugo's second email with suggestions:
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;6a1f19cb.1505
ACTION: Antoine to look at unclear requirements in Hugo's email
--ONGOING: I'd be tempted to take it between Hugo and I
Corey: we can talk on future call, but first pass offline is ok.

Abstract requirements
ACTION: Hugo to try to organize reqs in abstract requirements, trying to re-use Thomas' classification in the DB
--ONGOING
Thomas: it was still ongoing work. I have not changed it for a month.

4. AOB, next calls

Thread started by Lars on profiles on the LOD list:
https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-lod/2015May/thread.html ("Profiles in Linked Data")

ACTION: Antoine to ask Lars and send it to the DC-A list.

============= Remaining items, for next calls

X. Coordination with BIBFRAME
Thomas' evaluation of BIBFRAME AP
/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/BibframeAnalysis

X. Coordination with Hydra
Hydra Metadata Working Group: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/Hydra+Metadata+Working+Group
Portland Common Data Model: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Portland+Common+Data+Model

ACTION: Karen: post this link to W3C group - on hold until W3C group gets to the right point

Fedora4's using linked data fragments - http://linkeddatafragments.org/ ?

X. Glossary - postponed until we have time!

X. Possible Next Steps: http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements_next_steps
Agreed: defined what an RDF AP is, after agreeing on Core

</pre>
