---
title: minutes20150203
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/minutes20150203.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 15 February 2015, at 22:37.  
This page has been accessed 19,024 times.

**Meeting date** : Feb 3, 2015

**Etherpad** : [http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-03-02-2015](http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-03-02-2015)

**Attendees** : Thomas Baker, Karen, Antoine, Corey, Kai, Evelyn, Valentine, Thomas Bosch, Stefanie

**Regrets** : Lars

## Discussion of use cases and requirements 

[http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/)

[https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements\_analysis](https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements_analysis)

process for requirement merges - see [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;704b0413.1411](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;704b0413.1411)

New page for clean list: [/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/Requirements](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Requirements)

ACTION: Karen to complete new list of Reqs it as much as possible and call others to contribute --ONGOING

Karen: still needs to completed. E.g. point back to the database.

... Current description, title, number

... also 'action'. What is needed more?

Corey: 'action' should be included in 'description'

Karen: R-91 shows a difference

Antoine: I get the point

Karen: and explaining what to do with the issues - signal an error

Antoine: we could have it in the wiki, especially if it's not yet in the DB

Karen: do we need other things

Corey: not sure we should specify for signaling errors

Tom: many of the things are test. Anything beyond this may refer to the realm of applications.

Corey: for R-98 describing what the test is, is ok

... for other requirements saying what to do with signals could be too far

Karen: in w3c there's also a confusion between the language and the application of the language.

... e.g.: 'classes are disjoints' vs 'what to do once classes have been detected'

Corey: typically UC stop at the point of what you want

... one set of things to do when an error is detected

Karen: this puts a nice boundary for what we would have in our requirments

... we would have the descriptive part

Corey: +1

Karen: ok so we should be as descriptive as possible

... later W3C will develop the technology that implements this.

Tom: are there any requirements that can't be conceptualized as tests/checks (if the data matches the condition)

Karen: conceptually that's the case.

... but it's not necessarily how we've defined them

... e.g. R-210 doesn't have much of a test

... I think my 'actions' are your 'tests'

... do we need them here?

Tom: we should be clear about what's testable

Karen: description in the DB are all over the place

... we could have a unified approach in the wiki

Valentine: can't the test be expressed in the UC, not the requirement?

... it was a bit how we wrote them

[

looking at UC-Europeana-2 [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/338](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/338)

and then UC-11 [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=UC-11-WRONG-PROPERTY-DOMAINS](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=UC-11-WRONG-PROPERTY-DOMAINS)

]

UC-Europeana-2 says a lot about 'what if ...'

Stefanie: UC-11 says: 'do the test'.

... do we need this in the UC or Req?

Valentine: this was Corey's point&nbsp;: UC are more application-specific

Evelyn: it really depends on the application, what to do

... send a warning, correct the error, etc

Corey: when writing UCR, we should be application neutral

... but do we want to have a way for authors of AP to specify what the desired behavior is?

Karen: ok. But as DC do we want to go at this level?

Tom: I'm influenced by DSP and Sing. Framework

... DSP: define templates to match for data

... SF: stuff around it

... R-216. Is it a requirement for the language?

Karen: we declared it out of scope but there might be others here to question

Tom: general question/style

... requirement be expressed as concise sentences

... e.g R-32 (which is deprecated). use verbs '

Karen: for others we have this. for example 'check validity of IRIs'

Karen+Tom: the name of the requirement says what it is.

Karen: it's good to change them in the wiki, do it later in the DB

Tom: R-49 is good "Property occurs once per language tag"

Tom: ok I can do this

Karen: requirements to remove?

... the ones covered by cardinality R-68, R-69, R-70

Stefanie: agree

R-30 and R-32

Antoine: R-32 should be out. Pb with the DB

R-171 and R-171bis

Karen: still undecided

Karen and Tom re-formulating

Corey: I've got a case for thumbnail. Case is that the thumbnail has not disappeared

Tom: check the Http result codes (or a range thereof)

... related to unit testing - testable conditions

Corey: back to the boundary of the AP

... some stuff (checking the dimension of a JPG) may be externalized

Antoine: do this need to stop us? We can still postpone the two later.

Karen: W3C people asked if it was out of scope.

... they are still assuming a closed view

Antoine: so we keep them?

Karen: R-171bis is quite good

... R-171 needs a better definition

Tom: these are requirements for language?

Karen: this is what we're trying ot get at

Tom: req for a language could be such that an application could use the language for validate.

... e.g. 'specify the resource type'.

Karen: e.g. 'specify two properties as being disjoint' would work.

Tom: isn't disjoint too OWL?

Karen: disjoint existed before.

ACTION: Tom to review new list of Reqs, see whether the definitions make sense. Start after Karen has finished a first section --ONGOING

Antoine: Tom, is it ok with you? Enough input?

Tom: alright. I'll give input before next call.

Karen: anyone got time to copy the descirption from the DB into the wiki

Stefanie: I can try to do it

ACTION: Stefanie to copy-paste the descriptions (not the actions)

Karen: it would be great to have a list of requirements before the W3C meeting

## Coordination with W3C Shapes group - role of DCMI group 

charter: [/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/Charter](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Charter)

W3C draft requirements list: [https://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Requirements](https://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Requirements)

email: [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;7d388645.1501](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;7d388645.1501)

Karen editing W3C Data Shapes use case document

ACTION: Stefanie & Antoine to interlink DCAP Reqs with W3C Reqs and send result to W3C WG, after Karen and Tom have compiled the list of requirements

ACTION: put Thomas' analysis of BF on wiki

## Admin - Next calls 
<pre> 2015-02-17 - Karen not available - at the W3C F2F - Tom also can't make it
</pre>

ACTION: Corey to send a Doodle poll

