---
title: minutes20150409
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/minutes20150409.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 25 August 2015, at 17:31.  
This page has been accessed 13,189 times.

<pre>
DCMI RDF AP Task Group
/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles
Meeting date: April 09, 2015
Meeting link: TODO

Attendees: Antoine, Corey, Karen, Stephanie, Valentine
Regrets: Thomas
    
1. DCMI Requirements
http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/
https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements_analysis 

Karen: W3C List shoudl be available next week as a draft. 

New cleaned list: /mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Requirements
ACTION: Karen to complete new list of Reqs it as much as possible and call others to contribute 
ACTION: Tom to review new list of Reqs, see whether the definitions make sense. Start after Karen has finished a first section
ACTION: Karen to begin the comparison of W3C and DCMI requirements when W3C document is available.

ACTION: Corey and Karen to write up cases of validation with de-referencing or local caches, to be sent to W3C
W3C call today may include de-referencing discussion
-- Corey's question: My question for the W3C group is whether their definition of "instance data" includes local caches of remote resources. Example of LCSH on id.loc.gov. Over 480,000 skos concepts represented, of which I may need 10,000 in a local system, so I will use a separate triplestore or something like Linked Data Fragments to cache. I have validation needs around dereferencing these and confirming their shape. I also potentially have a validation need on when my cache is invalid .
-- Partial answer: there is great discussion about how the Shapes standard will define the extent of the graph over which validation will take place. There is also discussion about extension mechanisms, e.g. the ability to call arbitrary routines.

R-71 Conditional properties http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/78 
ACTION: Stefanie and Valentine find or make up examples
--ONGOING

Fedora4's proposed LD program -- you cannot store triples about objects - no triple with subject that is not managed by your repo. 
 Thus, de-referencing will be required
 linked data fragments - http://linkeddatafragments.org/
 Also see this video: http://videolectures.net/iswc2014_verborgh_querying_datasets/
 
 Notes from (almost) all the sessions at LamDevConX are listed here:
 http://library.stanford.edu/projects/ldcx/2015-conference/agenda
 
 
2. Coordination with BIBFRAME
Thomas' evaluation of BIBFRAME AP
/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/BibframeAnalysis

3. Coordination with W3C
 Requirements: http://w3c.github.io/data-shapes/data-shapes-ucr/
 Note: first draft of requirements will be issued next week. Karen will post link when available
Drafts (5) https://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Main_Page#Proposals

Test suite: W3C requires a test suite for standards. Format for test records not yet determined.
 They should be the "not-cleaned" records to be able to check potential errors. 

ACTION: Stefanie &amp; Antoine to interlink DCAP Reqs with W3C Reqs and send result to W3C WG, after Karen and Tom have compiled the list of requirements
--ON HOLD until the W3C reqs are a bit clearer. Also we'll have to compare with DSP.

ACTION: Antoine to contact Thomas to circulate his analysis of BF profiles on wiki 
--DONE

4. "Portland Common Data Model" (formerly the Fedora Community Data Model)
  https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Portland+Common+Data+Model
    documents and collections of documents, and how to represent these in RDF
    can we have a conversation with these folks? no one has time (but Mark M and Corey H are affiliated with this group)
ACTION: Karen: post this link to W3C group - on hold until W3C group gets to the right point
ACTION: Corey: post our work to the Hydra List - DONE

 See also newly formed Hydra Metadata Working Group:
     https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/Hydra+Metadata+Working+Group

5. Possible Next Steps: http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements_next_steps

- Making a 'core' could be relevant to send to W3C - it's something 
Corey: is it the list we have, or a subset?
Stefanie: it should be a subset
ACTION: Stefanie... I can have a look

Note from Evelyn: we have for example not defined yet what an RDF AP is - 
we could wrap this into the discussion of core?

- Express requirements as RDF
Karen: after we have compared with W3C and get a core?
Corey: look at Karen's page on DSP
Karen: some stuff in DSP may not be core
Corey: we could have a mapping between DSP and our requirements
... having a table would be great

ACTION: ask Thomas for a CSV from database - IDS + titles + links + descriptions [DONE]
ACTION: Thomas to send Corey the CSV

6. AOB, next calls

</pre>
