---
title: Minutes20140219
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Minutes20140219.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 14 April 2014, at 22:39.  
This page has been accessed 37,816 times.

RDF Application Profiles - 2014-02-19 - telecon

Chair: Kai

Present: Kai, Evelyn, Robina, Lars, Diane, Bernard, Dickson, Gordon, Miika, TomB, Mariana, Corey, Adrian, Karen, Valentine.

Scribe: Karen

## DISCUSSION OF USE CASES

EDM - [/archive/mediawiki_wiki/EDM](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/EDM)

Current: validation in XML/Schematron

Desired: more data quality validation (properties, domains, dates)

DM2E model - [/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DM2E](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DM2E)(EDM specialisation for digitised manuscripts)

Current: Uses external vocabularies with some difference in ranges, other modifications (extended scope notes of reused properties)

Desired: better use of mix&match vocabularies

EDM in DDB - [/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DDB-EDM](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DDB-EDM)

Current: XML, mapping between different schemas. All changes need to be done in mappings, documentation and Schematron.

Desired: Better workflow, where validate, map, & documentation are together

- versioning so you know if data was done to an earlier AP

OER World Map - [/archive/mediawiki_wiki/OER-world-map](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/OER-world-map)

Desired: Validation for read/write API

- need user labels and display order, which links are resolved, etc. (cf: Fresnel)

CEN EuroLMAI - [/archive/mediawiki_wiki/CSC](/archive/mediawiki_wiki/CSC)

Current: national data model, moving from UML to AP-type re-usable vocabularies

Desired: machine-readable API for validation & provenance of APs and AP changes

## ACTION: KAI SUMMARY & START OF DRAFT CHARTER

- validation of RDF data

- publish coherent machine-readable vocabularies and make additional statements about properties within local context (reusable local view)

- include how to make use of data - view / edit / label / style differences

- APs need to be machine-readable schema specifications

- define constraints, even local extensions and variations

- how to create and maintain APs, including documentation and versioning

## SKYPE CHAT
<pre>
Karen Coyle: Two possible workshops upcoming that we can use to discuss APs
Karen Coyle: New participants: Thomas / research ontology for social sciences; model transformations based on meta-modeling.
Karen Coyle: Valentine / Europeana / data coordinator
Karen Coyle: Corey / metadata services librarian, NYU / DC architecture forum / RDF in Blacklight, Hydra, Fedora
Karen Coyle: Robina / Europeana /
Karen Coyle: Mark Matienzo / DPLA / will add use case
Karen Coyle: Miika / computer science center, Finland / higher ed and academia
Karen Coyle: Dickson / MIMOS, Malaysia
Karen Coyle: Diane / Metatadata Management Associates / vocabulary development, registries
Kai Eckert: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles
Karen Coyle: USE CASES :
Karen Coyle: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/EDM
Karen Coyle: Robina: summary of current validation
Karen Coyle: ... external and internal schemas / aggregation of data sources; use XML schema to check validity, cardinality, etc. Use Schematron rules
Karen Coyle: schema-level validation + value types (now) - this is minimal but they would like to do other things
Karen Coyle: see presentations by A Isaac for validations they would like to do but cannot do now
Karen Coyle: Valentine: would like to validate recommended values / more data quality validation
Karen Coyle: -- check occurrence of properties, domains, check dates
Karen Coyle: -- want to provide info to data providers on how to improve input
Karen Coyle: Kai: main concern = validation. Need to document? publish?
Karen Coyle: Robina: not yet clear how an AP would do that. Valentine: could be a document that could be read by providers
Karen Coyle: Robina: would like to accept specializations of EDM from providers
Kai Eckert: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/DM2E
Karen Coyle: Evelyn: specialization of EDM for manuscripts. Main issue: using various external vocabs; sometimes ranges vary from original, or desire to make modifications
Karen Coyle: -- need to communicate details to data providers / have a large document / specialized model is subclassed to EDM
Karen Coyle: -- need better way to mix&amp;match, but also specialize for EDM
Karen Coyle: Stefanie: DDB-EDM / provides data for Europeana but also keep the data in their own system. Working on an XML schema and schematron
Kai Eckert: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/DDB-EDM
Karen Coyle: -What if XML is not the solution? (turtle, etc.)
Karen Coyle: -Mapping: there is a lot of mapping between schemas / every change has to be done in mappings, in documentation, is schematron. Need a better workflow.
Kai Eckert: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/KIM-recommendations
Karen Coyle: - Summary: Validate, map, + documentation
Kai Eckert: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/OER-world-map
Karen Coyle: Adrian (HBZ): World map project
Karen Coyle: -- read/write validation of data / building applications on an API, needs user labels and display order, resolution of links
Karen Coyle: -- incl. order of properties, labels
Adrian Pohl: http://www.w3.org/2005/04/fresnel-info/
Karen Coyle: -- will need to create an AP for Fresnel-like display
Miika Alonen: I added the CSC/academia use case
Miika Alonen: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/CSC
Kai Eckert: /archive/mediawiki_wiki/CSC
Karen Coyle: Miika: CSC - minister of education and culture / data storage and management for education
Karen Coyle: -- have national data model / moving from UML to AP-type or core vocabularies that can be re-used
Karen Coyle: -- have one AP for research data publishing
Karen Coyle: -- want: machine-readable APs for validation / track provenance of APs
Karen Coyle: Kai: why provenance?
Karen Coyle: Miika: want to now how APs are constructed, developed / do not know who made changes to data model
Karen Coyle: Stefanie: data may come in based on an earlier model / need to know "generation" , version of AP
Kai Eckert: i just wanted to say that application of provenance information beyond versioning of APs could be interesting
Kai Eckert: nothing more :-)
Kai Eckert: any further questions?
Diane Hillmann: Kai, I agree with you--
Miika Alonen: Yes. Providing machine readable version of AP would enable full use of PROV.
Mark A. Matienzo: Not ready this week - will ned to postpone
Mark A. Matienzo: *need
Karen Coyle: Kai: draft charter (for next call)
Karen Coyle: - validation of RDF data
Mark A. Matienzo: I'll be working with Amy Rudersdorf on our end to write up our use case and will send a notice to DC-Architecture when it's on the wiki.
Karen Coyle: - - W3C group
charles.valentine: gathering litterature and rules would be already good
Karen Coyle: - publish coherent machine-readable vocabularies / but make additional statements about properties within local context
Karen Coyle: -- reusable local view
Diane Hillmann: Kai, I think this is an important aspect--might include local extension too?
Karen Coyle: - further information how to make use of data - view / edit / label / style differences
Karen Coyle: - machine-readable APs / schema specification / constraints (even local)
Karen Coyle: - how to create and maintain / document, versioning,
Mark A. Matienzo: +1 to discussing local extensions
Mark A. Matienzo: that is relevant to our yet undocumented use case for DPLA.
Diane Hillmann: Yes
Karen Coyle: - local extensions
Karen Coyle: stefanie: difference between extensions and refinements (EDM)
Kai Eckert: lars?
Karen Coyle: Lars: DNB - how to distribute data in RDF with different types of representations / own schema or BIBFRAME schema / how to tell users what profile they are getting, using http headers
Karen Coyle: Kai: this method could be an extension to VOID - point to different representations of the same data
Karen Coyle: Lars: do it using URI patterns
Karen Coyle: next meeting?
Mark A. Matienzo: +1 for using doodle
Robina Clayphan: +1
Karen Coyle: Will schedule via Doodle
Mariana Curado Malta: Doodle is perfect
Robina Clayphan: or a dealing for filling in the doodle?
Robina Clayphan: deadline
Adrian Pohl: +1 to what Corey said or send the actual date to the list earlier
Adrian Pohl: +1 for deadline
Mariana Curado Malta: there is a problem there
Mariana Curado Malta: for those who have to give classes
Mariana Curado Malta: will never be able to attend
Mariana Curado Malta: if it goes in a day that is occupied
Corey Harper: deadlines++

</pre>
