---
title: Minutes20140319
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Minutes20140319.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 15 April 2014, at 12:00.  
This page has been accessed 38,493 times.

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
          <a href="#DCMI_AP_Call.2C_March_19.2C_2014"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">DCMI AP Call, March 19, 2014</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Matthias_Palm.C3.A9r_.26_Mikael_Nilsson"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Matthias Palmér &amp; Mikael Nilsson</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Eric_Prud.27hommeaux:_Shape_Expressions"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Eric Prud'hommeaux: Shape Expressions</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#IRC_chat"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">IRC chat</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

# DCMI AP Call, March 19, 2014

Agenda and meeting record

- [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/Agenda20140319](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Agenda20140319) - Agenda
- [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/Minutes20140319](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Minutes20140319) - Minutes
- [https://plus.google.com/events/caa7gmglrgp7g95kpfgu0r9f6ps](https://plus.google.com/events/caa7gmglrgp7g95kpfgu0r9f6ps) - YouTube video of this call

Present: Tom (chair), Matthias, Mikael, Corey, Eric, Bernard, Stefanie, PaulD, Mariana, Antoine, Mark, Kai, azlinayati, Robina, Thomas (incomplete! - add yourself, esp. if you were following on Youtube)

Tom: Opening and welcome. DCMI restructuring; this activity will become a working group.

Kai: AP profile activity within DCMI. Working group mission statement being developed. Need to find someone to chair (or co-chair) the activity.

DCMI AP Call, March 19, 2014 [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/Agenda20140319](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Agenda20140319)

Tom: Opening and welcome. DCMI restructuring; this activity will become a working group.

Kai: AP profile activity within DCMI. Working group mission statement being developed. Need to find someone to chair (or co-chair) the activity.

## Matthias Palmér & Mikael Nilsson

- RDF forms template editor - "formulator"
- This is open source software (BSD licence;) - to be embedded in a software environment
  - uses nodeJS; and javascript for forms user interface
  - [https://bitbucket.org/metasolutions/rdforms/](https://bitbucket.org/metasolutions/rdforms/) (+ cloned on github)
  - [http://rdforms.com/editors/](http://rdforms.com/editors/)
- DCAT editor
  - Based on W3C Data Catalog Vocabulary recommendation
    - [http://www.w3.org/TR/vocab-dcat/](http://www.w3.org/TR/vocab-dcat/)
  - Allows you to edit a data catalog vocabulary
  - Results are generated from a template, which allows you to edit catalog descriptions
  - Results are similar to a DC description set profile 
    - [http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-dsp/](http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-dsp/)
- VoID editor
  - Also form-based
    - [http://rdforms.com/editors/void](http://rdforms.com/editors/void)
- Construction of templates
  - Formulator: editor for template, like an editor for DSP
  - Drag-n-drop to create templates; can create bundles that can be combined
  - Test template available for trying 
  - Labels can have language attribute
- Q: How would you define a vocabulary encoding scheme within your vocabulary?
  - Editor allows fixed list of choices, or a regex pattern
    - can also generate list of choices; 
    - there are obvious difficulties with large lists
    - or can use SKOS services
  - any value can be defined by datatype
  - EntryScape - can define forms that can be combined with other forms. More than an ontology. Like a layer on top of DSP.
    - [http://entryscape.com/](http://entryscape.com/)
- Q How are templates stored?
  - Stored as JSON; similar to DSP language, plus additional UI/form attributes 
  - Template may not be identical to underlying code - may want to hide some complexity of structures. User interface can be a subset of the vocabulary and rules
  - ## Eric Prud'hommeaux: Shape Expressions

- 
  - [http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/FancyShExDemo?schemaURL=Examples/Issue-simple-annotated.shex&dataURL=test/Issue-pass-date.ttl](http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/FancyShExDemo?schemaURL=Examples/Issue-simple-annotated.shex&dataURL=test/Issue-pass-date.ttl)
  - [http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/Primer](http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/Primer)
- There was a W3C RDF validation in November, 2013, held as a W3C workshop
  - [http://www.w3.org/2012/12/rdf-val/SOTA](http://www.w3.org/2012/12/rdf-val/SOTA)
- There are different validation solutions: SPARQL, home grown, IBM "shapes"
- There is general agreement on a need for way to constrain data, but no "winning" solution yet
- Eric is doing a comparison of IBM resource shapes vs. DSP
- Shape expressions (ShEx):
  - Here's the shape of the data that I want to validate
  - Groups, cardinality, either/or
  - User interface allows validation and editing based on constraints/rules
  - Allows multiple inheritance
  - Use same language for validation and parser implementation; can use instance data to generate XML
- What's happening: IBM is submitting resource shapes to W3C, and Eric is submitting a proposal for a working group
  - Timing: charter within a few weeks; scheduled based on ability to do work
- There are two other implementations, and Eric will provide C++ implementation 
- Q: is parser available?
  - not yet in github; shared under MIT license
- Q: What is the overlap between this and DSP?
  - resource shapes and DSP are similar - you can export Resource Shapes as a DSP;
  - in theory you could consume a DSP, but such code has not been written
  - all is in RDF
  - there are some things that Resource Shapes and DSP have that are not (yet) in shape expressions, but could be added
    - conjunctions: Resource Shapes, ShEx and DSP have this in common, but ShEx also has disjunctions (and optional groups and semantic actions).
- Q: can you rely on order?
  - order matters in the shape, although this is possibly not carried thorugh in the triples
- Q: can ShEx be generated from an OWL ontology?
  - yes. although usually people are using OWL because they need constraints, even though OWL doesn't provide this in practice.
  - ShEx could be used to lighten up OWL, so people could use ShEx to take on the desire for constraints, and use OWL for inferencing (which is its purpose)
  - after converting to ShEx, one could simplify the OWL to remove the statements that don't facilitate semantics

Meeting end; thanking MetaSolutions for technical support for call. Asking for feedback from audience.

## IRC chat
<pre> (04:06:39 PM) ericP: -&gt; <a href="http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/Primer" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/Primer</a> ShEx Primer
   (04:07:24 PM) tbaker: EricP: We want to do this quickly. Expect we will
   work on a charter within a few weeks, then review for a few weeks, then
   start working.
   (04:08:36 PM) Matthias:
   <a href="https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/hoaevent/AP36tYchXEryPay1UW8wKHcWDSbumEf=" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/hoaevent/AP36tYchXEryPay1UW8wKHcWDSbumEf=</a>
   FykXfptFIYnMXY5t933py-w
   (04:09:20 PM) PaulD: Thanks for the session - I thought it worked well
   (04:09:34 PM) antoine___: Thanks a lot. Really good session!
   (04:09:45 PM) MarianaMalta: very very nice session, thank you!
   (04:10:21 PM) kcoyle: This seems to have worked well
   (04:10:31 PM) adrian_pohl: thank you. I m looking forward to taking a
   deeper look at this.
   (04:10:33 PM) anarchivist: tbaker: worked mostly well on my end, but i was
   having some bandwidth issues
   (04:10:41 PM) chrpr: Thanks to everyone. I'm really looking forward to
   digging into ShEx.
   (04:11:03 PM) anarchivist: tbaker: the timing didn't work this time, but
   DPLA could offer our gotomeeting/gotowebinar in the future as well
   (04:11:41 PM) tbaker: anarchivist, can you send me email about this?
   (04:11:53 PM) anarchivist: tbaker: of course!
   (04:12:05 PM) tbaker: great, thanks!
   (04:19:20 PM) chrpr: relax-ng-cs++
   (04:20:48 PM) *vcharles left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (04:21:47 PM) *antoine___ left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (04:22:32 PM) *gordond left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (04:23:55 PM) azlinayati: Eric, i'm new to the area. may i know whether the
   ShEx schema could be generated from and OWL ontology?
   (04:24:26 PM) azlinayati: *an OWL ontology
   (04:24:57 PM) tbaker: EricP: Two people working on this independently.
   (04:26:18 PM) tbaker: ...Frequently, when people are writing OWL, desperate
   to use OWL to reproduce a schema.
   (04:27:10 PM) tbaker: ...Can effectively complement it, separate "when is
   knowledge gained" and "what patterns accept"
   (04:27:49 PM) azlinayati: ok.. thanks eric
   (04:28:15 PM) tbaker: ...If someone were writing your schema in OWL - use
   FOAFfor this, DC for that - would not be a challenge for SE generator.
   (04:28:36 PM) tbaker: ...Only problems where complex ways of telling OWL
   you have certain properties on certain classes.
   (04:28:53 PM) tbaker: ...Once you have SE and OWL separated, OWL can be
   simplified.
   (04:34:32 PM) *Guest21822 left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (04:35:01 PM) azlinayati: from user point of view, i would prefer to have
   some interface to write the SE
   (04:35:37 PM) azlinayati: but like you said, at some point, i might want to
   be abel to edit the SE myself
   (04:36:28 PM) azlinayati: but this is very interesting work that would
   bring values to the current work that we are doing
   (04:41:52 PM) azlinayati: nice session. Thanks all :)
   (04:43:06 PM) kai_: have to leave now. bye at all, thanks to matthia
   anderic, very inspiring. I am sure all this will lead to really good
   results. I get back to Tom and Stefanie on next steps on DCMI side. CU
   (04:43:59 PM) *kai_ left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (04:46:16 PM) kcoyle: tbaker: I'm heading out. will leave IRC open and look
   for any notes you add
   (04:48:12 PM) *PaulD left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (04:48:29 PM) tbaker: kcoyle, thank you!
   (04:49:29 PM) ericP: karen, sorry i forgot to credit you for your
   contribution to the RDF Validation Workshop
   (04:49:39 PM) ericP: (i get flustered when i'm looking for names)
   (04:52:38 PM) *sruehle left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (04:52:41 PM) kcoyle: ericP: Oh, I'll make you pay sometime :-)
   (04:52:43 PM) *azlinayati left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 245 seconds).*
   (04:53:35 PM) ***ericP reachers for wallet
   (04:59:38 PM) *adrian_pohl left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (05:02:16 PM) *bvatant left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (05:07:18 PM) *kcoyle left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 245 seconds).*
   (05:23:35 PM) *chrpr is now known as chrpr_lunch*
   (05:31:53 PM) *chrpr_lunch left the room ("Leaving").*
   (05:38:49 PM) *MarianaMalta left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).*
   (06:17:15 PM) *tbaker left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 255 seconds).*
</pre>
