---
title: swib2014
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/swib2014.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 13 November 2014, at 15:52.  
This page has been accessed 33,519 times.

# RDF Application Profiles in Cultural Heritage

Day/Time: 2014-12-01, 13:00 - 19:00

## Abstract

The DCMI RDF Application Profiles Task Group (RDF-AP) deals with the development of recommendations regarding the proper creation of data models, in particular the proper reuse of existing data vocabularies. The Digitised Manuscripts to Europeana project ( DM2E) was a driving factor in establishing the task group and provides one of the main case studies. Like many other projects in the domain of cultural heritage, DM2E created an own data model based on the Europeana Data Model (EDM), which itself reuses parts of other vocabularies like OAI-ORE and Dublin Core and allows the creation of rich mappings. This mix-and-match of vocabularies and the documentation of project-specific characteristics or even constraints in using the data model is called an application profile. In this workshop, we will first introduce the DM2E model as a typical application profile, as well as the infrastructure developed in the project that determines how the application profile is actually used. The DM2E model not only describes digitised manuscripts, it also is used to model workflows for the transformation of the metadata, as well as representing the provenance of the metadata. Data represented in the DM2E model can be accessed via a SPARQL endpoint and search interfaces. As the DM2E model is backwards compatible with the EDM, the data is also provided in plain EDM for the ingestion to Europeana. The current status of the DCMI RDF Application Profiles Task Group will be presented, which will particularly include a brief overview on the other case studies and the identified requirements for a generally applicable solution. We then want to discuss these requirements and work towards practicable solutions together with the participants, who can reflect all approaches based on their own requirements in various institutions and projects. Concrete topics will be: - Definition of application profiles as “local” versions of existing data models. - How to create an application profile that remains interoperable. - Formulate constraints regarding your data within an application profile. - Linking your data to an application profile. - Validate your data with respect to an application profile.

[http://swib.org/swib14/programme.php#day1](http://swib.org/swib14/programme.php#day1)

## Schedule

Topics and methods from abstract and minutes:

- Definition of application profiles as “local” versions of existing data models. 
- How to create an application profile that remains interoperable. 
- Formulate constraints regarding your data within an application profile. 
- Linking your data to an application profile. 
- Validate your data with respect to an application profile.
- DM2E model as a typical application profile
- Other case studies and the identified requirements

**Preliminary schedule (12.11.2014):**

[https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/SWIB\_workshop](https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/SWIB_workshop)

