---
title: Update 201209
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_FOAF_Cooperation/Update_201209.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 26 July 2013, at 15:01.  
This page has been accessed 59,354 times.

<pre>2012-09-03 DC-FOAF meeting, DC-2012, Kuching, Malaysia

Present: Tom, Dan, Stuart

ACTION: Dan to formulate clarification of his change of employer and ongoing commitment to FOAF.

DCMI access to FOAF DNS
    Need to know:
        Gandi, account ID, password.
    Include in report: Dan, Libby, Tom have password.

DCMI monitoring payment of domain name fees
    ACTION: Dan update contact information.
    ACTION: Tom to confirm in periodic report to the community.

Public notice by FOAF Project of semantic changes in FOAF vocabulary.

ACTION: Dan to post June mailing list discussion on FOAF 1.0. New release by 1
October. Post on architecture.
    Post heads-up re: new release as per agreement.

Nature of the agreement
    ACTION: To to put annual re-affirmation of agreement on schedule.
    RESOLVED
    ACTION: Put email address in handbook.
        Nesxt re-affirmation: one year from now, or sooner if opportunity.

Monitoring of FOAF service outages and DCMI responses.
    ACTION: Tom and Dan look again how to mirror archive complete SVN by end of year.
    ACTION: Set up cron job to refresh copy. Should be made available publicly.

DCMI mirroring of FOAF Subversion project
    ACTION: Tom and Dan to address downtime monitoring by end-2012.

If FOAF Project ceases activity.
    ACTION: Every six months.

ACTION: Dan to speak with Creative Commons, DBPedia, vocab.org

ACTION: Tom to raise: "RDFa initial context" + LD statistics: monitoring health
of most common...

ACTION: Tom and Dan to ask [EricC] OCLC about prospective future of purl.org.

ACTION: Health of servers.
</pre>
